---
episode-number: 3
episode-title: 'VV Day, DevRel & More with Jen Looper'
date-published: 2020-02-10T14:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/enjoy-the-vue-cover-ep-3.png
sharing-link: 'https://fireside.fm/s/iAt1uZwr+b2mmmeaX'
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
download-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/3d218c4b-c5c1-49b8-8d0e-c0910cab0834.mp3
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/3d218c4b-c5c1-49b8-8d0e-c0910cab0834.mp3
sponsorship-details:
  sponsor-link: 'https://promo.linode.com/vue/'
  sponsor-logo: /uploads/linode-logo.png
  sponsor-name: Linode
  sponsor-offer-code: VUE2020
  sponsor-offer-details: >-
    An exclusive offer for Enjoy the Vue listeners, sign up today and use promo
    code 'VUE2020' to receive $20 towards your new account.
picks:
  ari-picks: >-
    CS60" by BADBADNOTGOOD,

    <a
    href="https://open.spotify.com/album/58gf6kYIJs1vM9mQMz8Roh?highlight=spotify:track:0t1uDisSbhUh3XYEVUrlKd"
    target="_blank">Spotify</a>,

    <a
    href="https://music.apple.com/us/album/iii/1330064907?i=1330065167&ign-gact=3&ls=1"
    target="_blank">Apple Music</a>,

    <a
    href="https://play.google.com/music/preview/Tdfsxizhm4gs567ikivmn6v7qwe?play=1"
    target="_blank">Google Play</a>
  ben-picks: >-
    Samantha Ming's <a href="https://www.samanthaming.com/blog/"
    target="_blank">new blog</a>,

    Juliet's School of Possibilities
  chris-picks: 'Cadbury mini eggs,Star Trek: Picard!!!,Outlander'
  elizabeth-picks: >-
    <a href="http://creepyface.io" target="_blank">creepyface.io</a>,Trader
    Joe's - Lightly Candied Pecans
shownotes: >-
  Thanks so much to Jen Looper for being our guest today! You can find her at:


  Twitter: (@jenlooper)\[https://twitter.com/jenlooper]


  Github: (jlooper)\[https://github.com/jlooper]


  Website: (jenlooper.com)\[https://www.jenlooper.com/]


  Other helpful links:


  * Vue Vixens Website: (https://www.vuevixens.org/)<https://www.vuevixens.org/>

  * Vue Vixens Day Website:
  (https://vvdayus.vuevixens.org/)<https://vvdayus.vuevixens.org/>

  * Vue Vixens Slack Invite:
  (https://communityinviter.com/apps/vuevixens/vue-vixens)<https://communityinviter.com/apps/vuevixens/vue-vixens>

  * Donate via Patreon:
  (https://www.patreon.com/vuevixens/posts)<https://www.patreon.com/vuevixens/posts>

  * Partner with them to create experiences

  * Donate time to help with code reviews

  * @VueVixens Twitter account:
  (https://twitter.com/VueVixens)<https://twitter.com/VueVixens>

  * Slack is a great way to get in touch


  ##### Jen's picks:


  * Lottie and the [LottieFiles](https://lottiefiles.com/) site for svg
  animations.

  * [Coderitus](https://open.spotify.com/album/2myTBvNpDExV6lTSGyqZr2) by Tamira
  James (Spotify)
transcript: >-
  Chris: This podcast is brought to you by our friends at Linode. Whether you're
  working on a personal project or managing your enterprises infrastructure,
  Linode has the pricing, support and scale you need to take your project to the
  next level. Get started on Linode today by going to linode.com/vue.


  Ari: Hey everybody and welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I'm Ari and today on our
  panel we have Elizabeth Fine.


  Elizabeth: Hey, hey!


  Ari: Chris Fritz.


  Chris: Hello.


  Ari: Ben Hong.


  Ben: Hello!


  Ari: And today our special guest is Jen Looper. Jen, would you like to
  introduce yourself?


  Jen: Hi everyone. I'm so honored to be on the inaugural podcast of Enjoy the
  Vue. I love the name by the way, it's spectacular. It's very friendly feeling.


  Jen: Yeah, my name's Jen Looper and in the Vue community I'm kind of known as
  your drunk auntie, but maybe it's better to introduce myself as ...


  Chris: I have never thought of you like that! \[Crosstalk 00:01:06].


  Jen: Oh Chris, I know you lie.


  Chris: My drunk auntie!


  Jen: Yeah, your drunk auntie. This is true though, so sorry. In reality I'm
  actually the founder and CEO of Vue Vixens Inc., which is a 501C3 non-profit,
  which we're also tax exempt so ... Those two things are not exactly the same
  but we're basically a charity that our mission is to educate women in all
  types of software development and specifically at the moment in Vue.js.


  Jen: So, that's what I do within the Vue community and my, actually paid job,
  is that I'm a Cloud advocate lead on the academic team at Microsoft. I've been
  there since May, not on that team. I just joined the academic team. This for
  me is a bit of a dream job and I have an amazing bunch of colleagues. It's a
  really cool team to be on and we deal with all types of students, all types of
  faculty, we deal with Microsoft student partners which is sort of our
  ambassador program. We deal with the Imagine Cup, which is their hackathon and
  other hackathons, lots of events, lots of content production and lots of
  conferences. So, that's what I do.


  Ari: All right, tell us more about Vue Vixens. What does Vue Vixens do to help
  out the Vue community?


  Jen: Right, so I should probably back up to the beginning.


  Ari: Yes, the origin story.


  Jen: The origin story, oh boy.


  Chris: I don't even think I know this one.


  Jen: It actually has nothing to do with cocktails, so that's kind of a new
  one. I actually came from the Angular community. I started with Angular JS and
  then we went through all of the iterations getting to Angular 2 at my former
  job, which was at Progress Software, where I was on the NativeScript team. So
  we did cross platform mobile apps using various frameworks and in JavaScript,
  our big one was Angular. At a certain point I was really active in the Angular
  community and I went to an event and mentored an ng-Girls Group, that is the
  Angular's version of Rails Girls, Django Girls. There's a genealogy of these
  type of initiatives that have been spun up by community members.


  Jen: I was amazed at the power of that community and by the great experience
  that it offered. What it was was a day long self-driven workshop. You created
  a pretty full-featured to do app, all done in Angular and by the end of the
  day you've got something fully functioning, you know a little bit about the
  inner workings of Angular and then you have this fellowship experience with
  other ladies. It was a really great experience and as I was progressing in my
  career I was more and more watching the Vue community, which was kind of
  getting started several years ago, and NativeScript had a community member,
  he's actually a college student, who spun up a port for Vue.js in NativeScript
  so that you could build your cross platform and mobile apps using JavaScript
  and using Vue instead of Angular, and it blew my mind. So I jumped right on
  that, and thank you Igor for making that an amazing product. And I got it,
  started talking about it in conferences, got it officially supported at
  Progress and that was my entrée into the Vue community.


  Jen: And as I was doing this entrée into the Vue community it seemed to me
  that, wow, wouldn't it be cool if we could do ng-Girls but for Vue. So that
  was an idea I started spinning around my community and I remember talking to
  Sarah Drasner on Twitter in a DM saying, "We should do this thing. What should
  we call it?", and she said, "There's got to be an alliteration somewhere". So
  immediately for me I thought, it's Vue Vixens, because I like foxes. It was
  just like "boom!", and really the first iteration of the logo is our final
  logo. It was that serendipitous of a situation. So I passed that over-


  Ari: It's a good logo.


  Jen: Yeah, it is a good logo. I really love our logo. It kind of all worked
  together just in a very serendipitous fashion and I launched on, a couple
  years ago, two years ago actually, on the Vue.js Amsterdam stage, that monster
  IMAX stage, said I'm going to do this thing, it's going to look like this,
  here's our logo, here's a not very pretty website. Who's in? And by the end
  people are figuratively storming the stage. So I got so much feedback after
  that event that it seemed to me this is the thing to do.


  Jen: Since then we've just grown a lot and we're worldwide in two years. It's
  been an amazing, growing experience. It's been a really ... I've learned a
  lot. I've learned a lot about weird stuff like taxes for non-profits and
  filing your non-profit.


  Ben: Oh my gosh.


  Jen: Yeah, so actually I'm helping other ladies who are trying to do the same
  thing by just showing them all the paperwork. Like, here's my paperwork, if
  you want to do this here's the link to do it. Even like, at some point
  Progress wanted to take on Vue Vixens as a private foundation and we were
  talking to Progress legal and it was a real education. So very interesting.
  And I think that its been a great growth experience for me and I learned a
  lot. I've made mistakes, but I hope that I learned from those and that we are
  at a position where we can benefit people all over the world. Our hotspots
  right now I think especially are Africa and Latin America. Latin America came
  on really hot. So, those ladies, those ladies are amazing.


  Jen: My first staffer actually was Diana Rodriguez who became our worldwide
  community organizer. And that cracked open LatAm, because our first event
  really was in Buenos Aires, which I was able to fly down to witness and it was
  one of those mind blowing, emotional experiences. Plus the steak, I am now
  ruined for steak. That's a problem.


  Jen: Same thing happened in Japan. We launched Vue Vixens Japan and I am now
  ruined for shrimp. So this is a problem.


  Ben: Shrimp. Oh yeah.


  Jen: One of those good problems.


  Ben: I thought you were going to say sushi, but shrimp. Interesting.


  Ari: I know, I thought for sure sushi and then she took it in a similar
  direction but different.


  Jen: It was all so amazing, it was so good. I kind of ate my way through Japan
  and that was a great experience too.


  Elizabeth: Jen, each city that you have Vue Vixens group in, is that what you
  would call a chapter?


  Jen: Yes.


  Elizabeth: Is that how you-


  Jen: Yes, we have special terminology at Vue Vixens, Inc. So we have chapters
  and those are the ladies on the ground who are doing things but work in their
  community. So I wanted to make sure that, for example in Mexico, you don't
  want to be wandering necessarily at night to a late night meetup, like what we
  have in the states, alone on the subway. So they do things during the day or
  there's other permutations of things that they do partnering with other
  groups.


  Jen: In Switzerland we have a chapter and they do more kind of partnerships.
  Germany is doing things within a company context and Sweden, very
  interestingly, we have a lady who really wants to skill up individuals. So she
  runs a whole curriculum and these ladies are literally getting jobs. So this
  is a spectacular success in Sweden. So we want to do chapters but we want to
  give those ladies the flexibility to create what works. It's been very
  interesting to get to know all these ladies.


  Chris: So instead of going in and just telling communities what they need,
  you're actually working with people who are enmeshed in those communities and
  helping them get the resources for whatever it is they need.


  Jen: Yeah, so we are extremely grateful to our Patreon supporters and our
  sponsors. We have two pots of money, one is for our chapters so all of the
  Patreon money goes to the chapters. So if a lady says I'm going to have a
  meetup, I want stickers. I'll use TransferWise and just pop over some cash to
  the chapter. So that's been a really great experience to grow something
  grassroots and they come up with the ideas, they join our Slack, they get to
  know everyone and then they form a chapter. So very, very grassroots and I
  think that that worked really well for us. Everything is always free, there's
  no monetary compensations involved but we have folks who are needing a little
  budget and we are able to provide that, which I'm really grateful for.


  Jen: The other pot of money is for scholarships. Our events budget is pulled
  out of that and if we do larger events that need a bigger budget, or if we
  want to buy tickets for a lady to attend a conference, that's another piece
  where that budgets going. That's my FreshBooks dump right there.


  Ari: I will say the only reason I'm on this podcast right now is because I was
  the beneficiary of a Vue Vixens scholarship to VueConf last year where I met
  amazing people like Chris and Ben and Jen, in fact. And the rest is history.
  Great things.


  Jen: I don't think that's the only reason. That's not the only reason.


  Ben: I was going to say.


  Ari: But I wouldn't have had the opportunity. It gave me an opportunity to
  really make meaningful connections within the Vue community and that meant a
  lot to me.


  Jen: Yeah, the conferences are a big deal, and at Microsoft we are becoming a
  "write first, travel second" org because it's very expensive. A lot of DevRel
  organizations go through this. You send everyone to conferences all over and
  then people realize, ooh, that's expensive! So then we pull back and it's
  write first and I'm like oh man! Because you start realizing, yes, it's great
  to sit at home and write but then you miss meeting all the people and talking
  to everyone and really interfacing in a meaningful way, and conferences can do
  that.


  Ari: I think that's a great segue into an upcoming event, Vue Vixens Day,
  which will be the day after VueConf US this year which is March 5th, is that
  right?


  Ari: The conference is I think is the-


  Jen: \[crosstalk 00:10:49].


  Ari: And then it's like three days before is VueConf, yup.


  Ari: Okay, so tell us more about that.


  Jen: Woo hoo! Yes, Vue Vixens Day. Boy oh boy, I did not expect to be
  arranging a conference this year, but again it grew organically from the
  community. So the first Vue Vixens Day was actually that first trip to Buenos
  Aires, so Diana organized a pretty decent sized community day, Vue Vixens Day.
  So what we did is we had community talks all morning, and then we had
  empanadas, which were amazing. Yeah, those are really good. And then we had
  our workshop all in the afternoon. So the first half of the day was mixed, all
  people were welcome and the great thing about that particular day is we had a
  grandma age 77, and her grandchild age 13. So we had such a fantastic spread.
  I have cute pictures actually. They're in my press pack. So abuela managed to
  make it, it was fabulous.


  Jen: So Vue Vixens Day is basically talks in the morning and workshops in the
  afternoon. Oftentimes, women only workshops in the afternoon; although, we're
  always happy to have mentors of all walks of life.


  Jen: And then the Columbia chapter got wild. They are the most amazing at
  organizing big events. In Latin America if you do something it will scale. So
  it becomes a big deal and the amount that they can do on a small budget it
  spectacular. So the Columbia gals did a, let's see they did Vue Vixens Day
  \[Medellin 00:12:21], and then they did a very interesting Vue Vixens day in
  Eje Cafetero, which is the coffee triangle. It's a rural area where the coffee
  is produced, and so they had ladies from rural walks of life. There's a lady
  who had never programmed before I think there. I love those kind of events, to
  really go in deep in the grassroots and really engage folks where they are. I
  think that was a very wonderful and meaningful event. Good pictures on our
  website from that one, Eje Cafetero.


  Jen: So, based on their experiences and how things worked for them, we thought
  we should do something in the US and it seemed logical to have it after
  VueConf because we figured there'd be a lot of Vue folks, Vue interested folks
  in the area. So we worked with that conference to figure out what would work
  and so we're going to follow that pattern of talks in the morning and we're
  going to have a lunch, and then we're going to do a few lightening ... is that
  right? Yes, we're going to do a few lightening talks after lunch. And then
  we're going to have a couple hours of workshops. We're going to have Kristen
  Ruben do a workshop on the Composition API using I believe Spotify or
  SoundCloud, I need to check. But it's going to create a music app using newish
  APIs and that will be women only. And then the other workshop overlapping that
  is going to be with Chloe Condon and she has a very famous workshop on how to
  build a fake boyfriend app.


  Elizabeth: I saw that on there.


  Jen: It's really good. It's Azure functions hooked up to Twilio and you create
  a little app where you can press a button and have an SMS or a phone call call
  your phone if you want to get out of an awkward situation. So you're like
  talking to someone and you really just want to extricate yourself, she'll
  create the fake boyfriend that will get you out of that situation. I think
  it's a really fun concept. So, those are the two workshops we're doing and
  that'll be the day. It's 8:00 - 5:30, it's packed. Five talks, three
  lightnings, two workshops, coffee, lunch, breakfast and we'll figure out the
  after party. I'm not quite sure what's going to happen.


  Jen: So that's a lot to take in, but we also have some amazing activities. I
  have to spill the beans on one of them which is Chloe is working with Tessa at
  Cloudinary, they're coming in as a sponsor. And they're going to create a
  ManyCam. So if you've seen, I think at the Oscars, you have a little box paved
  with a little fake grass and you put your hand through with your amazing
  manicure and you walk in front of the camera, you walk your fingers into the
  camera.


  Elizabeth: So, if you come to Vue Vixens Day you should have your nails done
  so you can walk through.


  Jen: Oh, we'll do your nails for you, we will do your nails for you. So we are
  bringing-


  Elizabeth: You will do ...


  Ari: She is so exited now!


  Jen: Spoiler alert, I just bought off Poshmark hundreds of water slip decals
  that you can attach to your nails, and then making custom ones with the Vue
  logo, the Vue Vixens logo and \[crosstalk 00:15:24].


  Ari: We're only a little excited, if you couldn't tell.


  Jen: Yeah. I thought this would kind of be a thing. So yeah, so some of our
  activities. We also have possibly, either we're going to do a crochet activity
  or a macrame activity. So, this is all extremely technical content but it does
  have to do with algorithms but, so-


  Ari: I mean yes, absolutely.


  Jen: Yes. So Tessa, in New York City, I think she's working on a design for a
  fox done in macrame. I think it's going to be crazy cute. I love it. Have you
  done macrame? I haven't done macrame in ages.


  Ari: I haven't either.


  Jen: It's where you're doing all the knots and making little designs with
  ropes and strings. So yeah, you thought you were going to have a technical
  thing in your podcast, but we're going to talk about macrame for the next
  \[crosstalk 00:16:08]. No, just kidding.


  Jen: Yeah, so lots of activities because I want people to engage on the
  technical level, have career building level. We're going to have a lady taking
  photographs for head shots, we always do that if we can. We did that in Buenos
  Aires, it's really helpful because it's expensive otherwise. And then the
  ManiCam, crochet a fox or macrame a fox. What other activities? I'm making an
  epic goody bag but I'm not going to tell you anything that's going to be in
  the goody bag because that's a secret.


  Ari: Ooh, mysterious and exciting.


  Jen: I've thrown one too many children's parties in my day. Yeah, I've got to
  take care of the children. It's all good.


  Ari: Well I for one will definitely be there, so everyone else should
  definitely join us as well.


  Ben: I will be there as well.


  Ari: So excited.


  Jen: Yeah, so excited. We'll get your nails done so pretty Ben.


  Ben: All right, let's do it.


  Elizabeth: Ben are you going to be wearing the unicorn outfit this year or is
  that?


  Ari: Oh my God, yes please, please, please!


  Ben: That is still TBD.


  Elizabeth: Okay.


  Ben: We shall see.


  Jen: Unicorns, so cute. We have door prizes as well.


  Chris: What!


  Jen: So, yes. If you are lucky enough to get a magical sticker, you'll get a
  door prize. I like door prizes because it's like just put a sticker under your
  chair and you win. This is like my kind of competition.


  Ari: Yes. I was already excited, but now I'm like so excited about this.


  Jen: Oh my gosh. Yeah, so we're just kind of arranging the details, the food,
  making sure my speakers are taken care of. So Sarah Drasner's coming to do the
  keynote, that's exciting as heck. And lots of great community folks too also
  speak with us. The information is on vvdayus.vuevixens.org, and just look at
  the schedule as it kind of evolves.


  Ben: And so Jen, how much does it cost to come to this amazing event?


  Jen: It's free! It's free, it's free, it's free \[crosstalk 00:18:14].


  Ari: Heck yeah!


  Jen: I do accept hugs.


  Ari: Aww, I can definitely pay in hugs.


  Jen: Yeah, so this is due to our amazing sponsors. So we have some platinums
  came in, silvers and golds and we really are appreciative of our sponsors
  because without ... it turns out, it's kind of pricey to throw a conference,
  FYI. So I'm glad that we are building up our nest egg over two years. I think
  I'm going to burn that budget hard. It's for a good cause.


  Elizabeth: So Jen, if we do want to register for Vue Vixens Day, is there a
  deadline that we need to do that by?


  Jen: Not really. It would be nice to ... I know that a lot of folks, it's in
  Austin Texas, it's kind of depending on whether you're going to be in the
  area. So, if thinking of getting your VueConf ticket and figuring out
  workshops and that kind of stuff just consider doing that and then grabbing a
  ticket on our site for, and I think there's a link as well on VueConf website,
  just stay an extra day and join us, that would be awesome. But yeah, there's
  not really a deadline. It's a free event and free events tend to real flexible
  in terms of who signs up and who shows. I'm expecting a hundred'ish people. We
  have Capital Factory which is an innovation space in Austin, they put us on
  the eight floor. So I think we have the whole floor and we're just going to
  occupy.


  Elizabeth: Awesome.


  Chris: Jen, something I've heard from a lot of people in the community who
  were introduced to the community through Vue Vixens or enter the community and
  then found Vue Vixens is the network of, not just women, but people in general
  that are available and that have provided mentoring, new job opportunities.
  I've talked to so many people who have made significant changes to their lives
  thanks to the resources that they found through Vue Vixens and not just
  learning resources. Was that a conscious design, or how did that evolve?


  Jen: Yeah, it kind of was. Thank you very much for those kind words, that
  means a lot to me. It helped me too, I'm not going to lie. I have managed to
  leverage a career change as well. But I want to help build a pipeline. So a
  lot of women in tech initiatives are kind of like build the pipeline, build
  the pipeline, we got to get those young gals in and get them trained up and
  get them into that first startup. And that is awesome, that is spectacularly
  great. I'm like your auntie, so I'm like the old lady in the house. The stats
  are not good for my age group, the stats are something like by the time you're
  40 even, 50 something percent of folks drop out of tech, ladies in tech drop
  out and find something else to do.


  Jen: So for me it's about not just the pipeline, but also avoiding attrition.
  And sometimes we can kind of help, mentor each other, help pass along job
  information. We all have networks and we can just leverage them and then
  funnel them right over to the channels. We have a jobs channel that people are
  filling in and I just want all this information to be out there so that people
  can help us help them, and help them help themselves. That's kind of the goal.


  Jen: So, yes pipeline, awesome. Attrition is brutal. And a stretch goal for
  us, because the other moment of attrition for girls in STEM is actually middle
  school. So this is a stretch goal for us and I'd love to reach the younger
  gals, even before they hit that pipeline, to try to help them stay engaged and
  stay excited about being a girl in STEM. I think we made a lot of progress,
  not Vue Vixens, but society in general. I think we made a lot of progress, but
  I think we can contribute as well here. It's super fun, super cool.


  Ari: Yeah, I will say that the emotional support channel in the Vue Vixens
  workspace, not just for me and me saying things are there, but hearing stories
  from other, especially women in tech and the struggles they're going through,
  and being able to lend supportive words and advice has meant a lot to me.
  Because it reaffirms that we're in this together.


  Jen: We are in this together, we are in this together. We can help each other
  tremendously. So I think that that is really a great thing to hear. The other
  very important channel in Vue Vixens Slack is pets.


  Ari: I feel like that's the only one I'm not in.


  Chris: Yeah, when I was talking about people changing their lives, that's the
  channel I was referring to.


  Jen: Yeah, I figured. I figured I should mention it.


  Chris: \[crosstalk 00:22:39] a dog and it transforms. Yeah, the emotional
  connection to other beings.


  Jen: Alinda has a very large sheepdog that likes to loll around on the floor
  but I just keep telling her that this is not the \[crosstalk 00:22:54] rugs
  channel, some people get it better than others. But, we just have a lot of
  fun.


  Chris: I have to ask has anyone ever posted a pet fox?


  Jen: We've had a couple fox pictures.


  Chris: Is that even legal?


  Jen: So in Russia, there's a thing in Russia they're domesticating foxes and
  there was a gal who was wandering in the Moscow subway with a fox draped
  across her shoulders. I don't know-


  Ari: That's crazy.


  Jen: I feel like, yeah, some people are experimenting in this realm. I'm going
  to let them do their thing and just watch \[crosstalk 00:23:26]. There's a den
  down the street of actual foxes and they hiss at you and growl and I just ...
  not the best pets.


  Elizabeth: So can anyone join the Vue Vixens Slack and how do you find the
  link for that?


  Jen: Yeah, great question. Absolutely, come and join us. You can look at
  vuevixens.org, at the farthest right hand corner is a teeny little icon but it
  will send you to a link and then you can just join and what we do is we ask
  that you're going be popped right into general. So put your real face if
  that's at all possible, and use your real name so that we know who you are, we
  can welcome you properly. And then come to the introductions channel and just
  say who you are and what you're looking to do with us and jump into code help,
  which is another channel, I just used it today. Jump into, of course, pets and
  jobs and conferences and all sorts of other cool channels that we've got
  there.


  Jen: If you're part of a region and you want to start something regionally,
  link up with Diana. So she's Super Diana on our Slack and she can talk about
  chapters that exist or things that are happening. If you're in a conference
  and you would like to work with us, that's another thing you can always ...
  ow, this cat just bit me.


  Ari: I bet that fox is looking good right about now.


  Jen: Yeah, seriously, oh my goodness.


  Elizabeth: Look at her. You did say before we started that she was licking her
  chops so maybe she had been waiting for this moment, waiting for you to just
  be distracted to she could go in for the kill.


  Jen: She bites me but then she lets go because I'm not real tasty. Oh, here
  she is, incoming. Oh my goodness.


  Elizabeth: She's coming closer.


  Chris: Oh wow, right for the jugular.


  Elizabeth: I'm getting nervous.


  Chris: You're losing a lot of blood Jen, are you okay?


  Jen: She doesn't like the taste of me, it's a long story with this cat. That's
  funny. So what was I saying? Oh yeah, join us on Slack.


  Ari: I will say that from my experience the code help channel has been the
  best resource I have found for when I'm stuck on the Vue specific problem.
  Because people in there are incredibly responsive and they will respond
  quickly and even if they don't know the answer they'll try to talk through it
  with you so that maybe you guys can land on the answer together. But yeah,
  I've asked questions on the official Vue forms and I haven't necessarily
  gotten answers so, everyone is always very helpful in there.


  Jen: Well that's good to know.


  Elizabeth: It is, yeah.


  Jen: There's also the Vue land discord which is ... the other big group is the
  Vue land discord so that's another place that people are going to for sure.


  Ari: I will say people are much nicer in the Vixen Slack. There's just really
  high quality people there.


  Jen: Good to know, good to know. That's the goal. And I am moderating so the
  one thing that I've learned about building communities is you've got to
  moderate. So, and people will come to me and be like, this person doesn't seem
  to be who he or she thinks she's saying that she is. And I don't want
  \[inaudible 00:26:23], so moderation is the key.


  Chris: That's why I message you sometimes saying, "She ain't all that and a
  bag of chips". Then you've got to do something about it. What kind of tips do
  you have for moderators? That is kind of hard and how do you help guide
  peoples behavior in a friendly way and help people get along and create a
  community where people feel safe and stuff.


  Jen: Yeah, I've experimented with two bots. The greatest bot ever was Taco,
  which was a little bot and then they decided to monetize it and a lot of
  communities had to peace out. But that was a Slack bot that really encouraged
  people to give tacos to each other for friendly help, so it was a huge
  incentivization. There was even a taco store, if you got enough tacos you
  could buy merch or something. It was really a great concept, and then it got a
  little pricey. So, that's the first Slack bot. So I'm a big believer in
  automation and then personal touch. So Slack bots can be helpful.


  Jen: We tried a thing called Donut but it's very pushy.


  Ben: A little bit.


  Jen: It is pushy, so I think I dismantled it. Somebody rage quit it and the
  whole thing blew away from Slack.


  Ben: I will say I met a number of people through Donut that actually
  \[crosstalk 00:27:37] the donut from her. Like Clara from the Vue Vixen
  community, we got put in touch because of the donut app.


  Ari: Maybe we should explain a little bit about what Donut is/was.


  Ben: Oh yeah, okay.


  Jen: Yeah, it's another Slack bot. It helps you create personal one on ones
  with people. So it will try to help schedule you, and it's a little pushy. So
  it's like, hey, you haven't chatted with someone for a while, it's time for
  you to schedule your one on one and I was like, Jesus Donut, leave me alone!
  But for some folks who are a bit shy it can be a forcing function which could
  be good. I hope it was a good experience for folks, but yeah.


  Jen: So at this point it's manual moderation. We do have a locked channel of
  moderators who sometimes have a little chat just to make sure everything's
  okay. But yeah, I think another little thing I put in our Slack is when
  someone says the word "guys" I have a little \[inaudible 00:28:30]. I do the
  same thing, it's a habit. Especially on the West coast it's a habit. Very
  interesting.


  Ari: Yeah, which is where I grew up.


  Jen: Yes, so a little Slack notification that says, let's try to use a little
  bit different language like "pirates". Just make it, don't be scoldy but be a
  little more fun \[crosstalk 00:28:51].


  Ari: I will say I have been so much more mindful of my use of "guys" as a
  general term since the Slack bot started yelling at me. And it's carried over
  to all facets of communication for me so, honestly very effective.


  Jen: Me too. I try to say "pirates" as much as I can.


  Chris: I just go to North Carolina so I can say y'all.


  Jen: Y'all.


  Ari: I've just adopted y'all for myself, but I say it in a very West coast way
  just like, yall. I'm not like y'all because I can't deal with that.


  Jen: I like that a lot. I think Diana says all y'all which is even better
  lingo.


  Ari: Yeah, y'all is one thing but all y'all is a very more specific, literally
  everyone here.


  Jen: This group, yeah. I think that's good, \[inaudible 00:29:38] that you're
  in the East coast like me. But, yeah in Boston-


  Chris: Yous. What about "yous guys". Then we're in trouble again.


  Jen: Do you say that? "yous guys". \[crosstalk 00:29:48]


  Chris: \[crosstalk 00:29:48].


  Ari: I've heard that.


  Chris: I feel like that's a Mafia movie or something, yous guys.


  Jen: Yeah, Boston I don't think we have a good moniker. Hey, West ...
  \[crosstalk 00:30:00].


  Chris: Hey, let's do \[crosstalk 00:30:06].


  Jen: \[inaudible 00:30:06] so that might work too. That's very aggressive. Oh
  my goodness. Yeah, so those are some tips. I think we have to take, Ben remind
  me who this character is in Harry Potter who says "constant vigilance", it's
  Mad-Eye Moody, yes?


  Ben: Yes.


  Jen: Constant vigilance! So that's kind of the, unfortunately the community
  builders mantra. It's constant vigilance!


  Ben: So Jen I know that you mentioned you've been doing a lot of DevRel work,
  can you tell us a little bit more about what DevRel entails? I know a lot of
  people in the community have heard of this but there are probably a lot of
  misconceptions around what that entails.


  Jen: So for me, I've been a software developer for about 20 years. I got out
  of my academic interests at the end of the .com boom in about 2000, when a
  monkey could do HTML and CSS and get a job. Thank God. Because I think it's a
  lot harder now which it is and the level I was at was like monkey. Not to
  disrespect monkeys. But, I jumped into my first startup as a developer and
  worked my way up. So I thought I'd be a designer, turns out I'm bad at design
  but I do technical writing, I'm not that great at that either. So, yay, I was
  saved by ColdFusion, yay! Adobe products. Everyone's like, what is that? I'm
  not going to tell you what ColdFusion is, you can Google it.


  Jen: It was a lot of flash and using the Adobe stack to build up web presences
  and mobile presences. And with a lot of software development under my belt I
  got a teeny bit burnt out at my last startup and I was recruited by a friend
  of mine, Brian Rinaldi, into his company called Telerik at the time, to join
  their developer advocacy team, which is at the time called just the developer
  relations department. It was one of the greatest departments I've ever worked
  in, the Telerik team. So Telerik is a little company, a little scrappy startup
  from Bulgaria populated by an amazing group of Bulgarian engineers, acquired
  by Progress. So a month after I joined Telerik we were acquired by Progress
  and all of a sudden we're back in the fold of a big US corporation in
  developer relations with all the changes that means. And so at Telerik I
  became an advocate, so not a software engineer anymore but an advocate for
  various product lines.


  Jen: I started with Kendo, which is web widgets. Nice forms and beautiful
  grids, beautiful charting as well. And then we spun up this product called
  NativeScript just out of the blue kind of at the same time that React Native
  was born. This idea that you could use JavaScript and it would compile down to
  a Native mobile app which was actually amazing technology when you think about
  it. And so it was a really great experience to be passionate about a product
  and be able to talk to communities, not so much about the product, but about
  their experience in software development that might make them interested in
  trying a couple of new things. Whether that be our product or not, that's
  their choice. But it's all about ... it's not evangelism, it's about advocacy.


  Jen: So we were developer advocates and we were all about helping folks figure
  out what they want, figure out what they like and figure out what they hate.
  Try to fix what they hate, find the pain points and try to offer solutions. If
  they have problems with our products then we can form a liaison between that
  community person and our product team. We do a lot with Microsoft with that
  kind of advocacy. At Progress it was a lot of going and speaking at
  conferences and talking about a technology with maybe a little product tie-in
  at the end, but for me it was always easy because NativeScript is open source.
  So it's really easy to advocate for an open source product because you're
  never in that position where people want to try it and then they have to start
  coughing up cash very quickly.


  Jen: So it's a different story currently here at Microsoft. So I'm not on the
  open source team anymore. So I'm happy to be on the academic team where we can
  help students because we have Azure for students offering and we have GoodHub
  which is a great platform for students to come and talk to us. But for me,
  developer relations is all about advocacy, it's all about helping. And I find
  that the four pillars of advocacy is writing, coding, speaking and helping.
  Helping can be helping on stack overflow, or helping in a forum. But for me
  those are kind of the four things that a good developer advocate has to do
  while always maintaining your clout as a decent software engineer, or a great
  software engineer. So that's the trick, finding that balance.


  Elizabeth: I always wonder how developer advocates do find that balance
  because you spend so much time out in the community and so much time
  networking, how do you find a way to stay up as a top software engineer as
  well?


  Jen: Yeah, that's a great question. It's surprising but I have never been a
  better software engineer until I became a DevRel, because we have to live on
  the bleeding edge because that's where people want to look. They want to see
  what's coming soon. So we have to stay on the forefront. I'm very closely
  watching Vue 3 and seeing what's going to happen. Hopefully we'll get some
  clarity on that because people are going to start asking us questions and we
  need to have an idea what's going on.


  Jen: So for me it's been a great place to be on that bleeding edge and we also
  have to have demos ready, sandboxes ready for consumption. We have to have
  talks ready and writing ready, and it has to be maintained and kept up to
  date. So for us it's all about staying current, whereas in my old companies we
  were using older versions of ColdFusion, older versions of Flash and Flex
  because I was in the enterprise and we couldn't stay on the bleeding edge
  because the compliance wouldn't allow it. So it's a different kind of space to
  be in and it's a great, great privilege and I really appreciate it.


  Ari: How do you come up with some of the ideas you end up using for demos? You
  have some of the most interesting collection of demos I've personally seen.


  Jen: That is true.


  Ari: Tell us, first maybe give a few examples of your demos. I will let you
  speak for them, not me. And how you arrived at those ideas.


  Jen: Well, some of it is obvious. It involves a lot of drinking. So, no, it
  actually all stems from people you meet and places you go to and experiences
  that you have in your past career and your past life. I did a whole thing at
  Vue Amsterdam last year and I took it on the road about when you're on the
  road and you have to look in your mini bar and all you've got is a bunch of
  little bottles and you're not even sure what some of those bottles might be,
  but you can use a custom machine learning model to scan them and it would
  suggest combinations that would create a nice cocktail. So that's kind of the
  perfect mobile use case, plus machine learning, which I really enjoy tinkering
  with. So for me that was kind of the perfect example of something you can have
  and really engage in and talk about. Because who doesn't like cocktails,
  right? So, that was a plus.


  Jen: Right now I'm working, I'm actually going back to my former training as
  someone, I have a Ph.D. in Medieval French Literature, that's an entirely
  different story. And so I'm at this point in my career where I can look back
  at what I used to do and draw on it. So I'm creating some machine learning
  models right now using 13th and 14th century manuscripts that I used to work
  with. I'm really excited about a project I hope to publish as a book, spoiler
  alert, called The Humanists Guide to Deep Learning, so kind of drawing on this
  humanistic background and using really bleeding edge technologies to create
  really engaging web and mobile experiences, this applied machine learning. I'm
  working with Gregorian Chant I hope. I hope I will be able to create a mobile
  experience you could scan and manuscript, look at the tablature and at the
  notation and it'll play it out for you, this kind of stuff.


  Ari: What? That sounds awesome!


  Jen: I know, so just stay tuned. I have so many projects, it's all in notion
  all under lock and key so I'm like, I keep having ideas, I'm thinking of
  chapters to add and projects to create, but it's an infinite, infinite amount
  of ancient stuff we can use. I'm actually doing a pilot right now for museums
  and libraries at Microsoft so I really fell into a tub of butter and I'm so
  freakin happy about this. But, my brother, for example, is one of the
  preeminent Maya specialists, but he always goes to Guatemala and looks at
  Mayan hieroglyphs and he has a huge knowledge base and huge database, and I'm
  thinking that we can create an incredible mobile app, an incredible mobile
  experience where you could scan a Mayan hieroglyph and it would tell you what
  it means, this kind of thing.


  Jen: So, just drawing on the connections you have on your education, on the
  people you know and be as creative as possible, because life is too freakin
  short to be boring, in my opinion.


  Ari: I think that's a good opinion to have.


  Jen: Yeah, so much fun.


  Elizabeth: Oh, that makes me feel bad about my current projects that I have
  going on that are super basic. I'm like, okay, I'm going to create a recursive
  component. That's my-


  Jen: That's amazing! I don't know how to do that, I want to do that.


  Ari: Yeah, just so you know. Everyone else out there, the rest of us do not
  have projects like Jen so don't feel bad.


  Jen: I'm excited. It's been a long time, actually it's taken me 20 years to
  feel comfortable with speaking about my background because it's a danger zone.
  You can lose a lot of credibility if you say I have non-traditional training,
  I didn't come up in software engineering, I came from outside the industry and
  it's like finally I feel comfortable talking about it. So, and I'm lucky to be
  in this department on this team. Our spatial computing people, we have people
  from the game industry, we have a girl, April, who is from the fashion
  industry, we've got Chloe Condon, she reports to me, she's incredible. It's a
  fermentation of epic people in this department of 100 Cloud advocates who are
  all thought leaders. So, it's a tub of butter and I'm really, really excited
  and happy to work with them.


  Ari: I feel like you are very much a testament to why non-traditional
  backgrounds in software are important because without your background I feel
  like you wouldn't have ever come up with these amazing, crazy ideas that help
  connect software to people who don't normally care about software by relating
  it to something that they might be interested in that's totally outside of
  that realm.


  Jen: Yeah, and it's had-


  Ari: Personally, I think that it's amazing that you are comfortable with that
  now because it's a great example for a lot of people.


  Jen: It's great but you know I also want to like shout out the people who came
  up the hard way and came up as CS majors. My amazing colleague Francesca who
  has a Ph.D. in Data Science, what a pleasure to work with someone that
  rigorous because I'm like bouncing like a rubber band off the wall and she's
  like, "Jen, calm down. Let's get some rigor in here". So it's wonderful to
  have a balance there.


  Ari: I totally agree.


  Chris: So Jen, where can people ... you talked a little bit about how people
  can support the stuff that Vue Vixens is doing and take part and you talked
  about the Patreon and obviously there are a lot of volunteers, how can people
  support the work that you and the other Vixens are doing?


  Jen: Yeah, that's a great question. So we're starting year three, I'm going to
  be writing in depth to a retrospective and getting a roadmap and a link to our
  annual report which I posted on Twitter, but yes, it's awesome if you can
  donate time and money. But a lot of people, I don't want to be like shaking
  the tin can all the time. So for me it's not really all about money. We can
  find corporate sponsors. We love our Patreons but for me it's all about just
  joining with us, partnering with us to create amazing experiences.


  Jen: We're looking to maybe expand out of the Vue community and into the React
  community, for example. I'm not quite ready to reveal the details on this
  project, but we're looking to take our workshops and spin them up to React and
  I would love for people in the React community to come to us and help us with
  our content. I did a React Native app and expo, I would love to have a code
  review. So if someone could donate an hour of their time to do some code
  reviews, this kind of thing would be so helpful. If you're involved in
  organizing a conference and you think we might be a good fit to do a free
  workshop for the ladies at the conference, hit me up, absolutely.


  Jen: So, it's never all about money. It's all about time commitments of any
  amount, half an hour to your entire life. No fear there. But yeah, if you want
  to come and engage with us we have all kinds of ways that you can get
  involved, for sure. Just reach out. And you can reach out \[inaudible
  00:42:55] on Twitter.


  Chris: Yeah, so should they reach out to ... what Twitter accounts, or we talk
  to you personally, or they'll be Vixens accounts?


  Jen: Yeah, come to @vuevixens, you can also come to any of our chapters. They
  also have their own Twitter accounts. It's probably easier to talk to
  individuals if you hop on Slack and talk to us there. Oh, my cat is meowing.
  Ouch Audi.


  Chris: How do people join the Slack? Is there a link on the Vue Vixens website
  or something?


  Jen: Yep. So you go to the bottom of vuevixens.org, it's the farthest one I
  believe on the right. It's a small little icon and you can click the Slack
  icon and that'll take you to a signup.


  Chris: And then you also talked about this book, Deep Learning for Humanists I
  think it was?


  Jen: The Humanists Guide to Deep Learning.


  Chris: The Humanists Guide to Deep Learning, yeah. Is that coming out soon?


  Jen: I have to pitch it. I have to get my ... it's actually hard to write a
  book it turns out.


  Chris: You don't say?


  Jen: I know right.


  Ari: I tried that once, it did no work out.


  Jen: Yeah, I need ... there's a lot of paperwork. You have to fill out to
  pitch the exact thing you want to talk about and then work with a publisher.
  So what I'm trying to do first is get my ideas together on Notion. I would
  love for that to be this years project, maybe for publication next year. The
  field is of course moving relatively fast in machine learning. I would want to
  use TensorFlow but I got to watch TensorFlow too and where it's evolving. So I
  want to work with that team to make sure I don't mess it up too dramatically.


  Jen: But, I have about six projects. What I'm going to do is I'm going to be
  taking these ideas, spinning up conference talks and articles so people can
  see the prototypes, take a look and come back to me with feedback, then turn
  it into a chapter for each one of these projects that I'll create. The problem
  with writing technical books is that everything gets out of date yesterday so
  I need to make it generic enough so that it won't get out of date so quickly,
  that's the challenge.


  Chris: And then a new edition every year, and make the big bucks.


  Jen: Oh yeah, make the big bucks. Because my dad will buy it and maybe my
  brother, if I feature them \[inaudible 00:45:05] my brother will chip in.


  Chris: Is there a place where people can sign up to get news on Vue Vixens or
  other stuff that you're up to at Microsoft or with the book?


  Jen: Yeah, you can visit me online at jenlooper.com, so just my name .com. I
  have links to a lot of stuff there, speaking, writing, try to keep my blog up
  to date. Follow me on Twitter, that's for stream of consciousness, it's just
  @jenlooper, and those are my two main channels I think.


  Ari: And with that it's time to move onto this weeks picks. Ben, would you
  like to go first?


  Ben: All right. So I have two picks for this week. The first one of which is a
  fellow co-worker at GitLab, her name's Samantha Ming. If you haven't followed
  her she's really great. She has a lot of tidbits about HTML, JavaScript, and
  so she just released a new design tech stack that she built her blog using
  VuePress, and I think Tailwind and I believe Cloudinary. So she did a great
  write up on it, so we'll make sure to include that in the show notes. That's
  one of my picks.


  Ben: And the other one is a short story called "Juliet's School of
  Possibilities". And so basically it's a short story about a woman named Juliet
  who is a super ambitious go getter and she's busy and productive all the time
  but she gets this bad performance review from her company that kind of lands
  her in hot water and she's trying to reconsider whether her efforts are really
  being as effective as they are, even though she's busy all the time. So it
  covers this idea, it's sort of like a fable about time management, priorities,
  the kind of lives we lead, and what's important and really how to make the
  most out of your time and energy. I blew through that book in like two hours.
  It's a really short read. Really great if you're having some ... just
  reconsidering your priorities, the weekly read. So, those are my two picks for
  this week.


  Ari: All right, Elizabeth. Do you want to go next?


  Elizabeth: Sure, okay. First pick is a very, well, I don't know, I'll say the
  use case for this JavaScript library probably is quite narrow, but it's called
  creepyface.io, and basically what it does is it generates an image that
  follows, it makes your face follow the cursor. I guess one of the use cases
  could be for a personal website or resume or something like that. But, I can
  pop that in the show notes. So, yeah, in case you were looking for something
  like that.


  Chris: In case your resume's missing a creepy face.


  Ben: \[crosstalk 00:47:34].


  Elizabeth: In case you feel that would add to your resume. I don't know, I
  just thought it was cool. I like these random JavaScript libraries.


  Chris: I think I would've gotten that job at Microsoft if only ...


  Jen: \[crosstalk 00:47:43], oh my gosh.


  Elizabeth: I just like these random things.


  Jen: How cute.


  Elizabeth: Yeah. And my other one is a thing that exists in actual physical
  real life. I think Jen is doing that, doing the cursor in real life with her
  finger in front. My other pick is if you have a Trader Joe's near you and if
  you like and can eat pecans, you should get the lightly candied pecans because
  those are the best thing in the whole world and the thing that I like about
  them is that they're lightly sweetened, so they're not quite as bad as normal
  candied pecans and they are so addicting. And, I guess they make you more full
  than regular candy would make you or something like that because they're nuts.
  So there's at least some nutritional benefit there. So yeah, those are my two
  picks. I'm super addicted to those right now. I've been blowing through bags
  and bags.


  Jen: I'll have to get some of those.


  Ben: I live close to a Trader Joe's, I might have to go pick some up after
  this.


  Elizabeth: Yup, try them. You'll thank me later.


  Ari: Okay, Chris, do you have your picks?


  Chris: All right, so I have three picks. The first one is Cadbury Mini Eggs. I
  had to two of which today and that is my quota, I cannot have more than two or
  else this would be a three hour podcast. And mostly about eggs and chocolate.
  That's the first one. They are so delicious and also part of my childhood so
  I'm kind of nostalgic for them.


  Chris: And then the next pick is Star Trek Picard. There's a new Star Trek out
  and this is the first Star Trek in a while where I feel like wow, it's good
  actually. I'm really, really enjoying it. I've only seen two episodes so far
  but really digging it. I was prepared to be disappointed, have not been so
  far. And especially in the first episode so many good lines, so many great
  lines in the first episode. I'm not going to spoil anything for you, go watch
  it yourself.


  Chris: And the next pick is another show that's on Netflix called Outlander
  which was recommended to me by a friend. It's I think one of the show runners,
  is one of the show runners on DS9, which by the way is the best Star Trek, if
  you disagree with me you can let me know @gloomyloomy on Twitter.


  Ari: We're still going with that joke?


  Chris: Oh yeah.


  Ben: That will never die.


  Chris: It's not a joke. I'm serious, that's how you can reach me. And
  Outlander is about this time travel Scottish romance which does not seem like
  my thing, and I watched three episodes and was not impressed. And I was
  encouraged to watch a little bit further and I don't know when it happened,
  but somehow maybe around episode six there's a moment where I was so invested
  and so just rapt that something happened, I won't tell you what because no
  spoilers, and I just stood up, screamed at the TV, said "Are you kidding me?",
  turned away in disgust, then immediately sat in front of the TV like I'm a
  little kid watching for more. Like seeing what's going to happen next. I'm in
  it now. I think I'm on episode ten, it's got me. It's got it's hooks. I don't
  even know why I like it, but I like it. I think, I can tell you some reasons
  why I like it. There are some great, great costumes and also ... make sure you
  watch it with a window open during some of the steamy scenes. My goodness. I
  do declare.


  Ari: So it sounds like you might have-


  Chris: I had a case of the vapors.


  Ari: TV show Stockholm Syndrome?


  Jen: Chris, I've never seen you like this.


  Ari: Like you watched it for too long and you started to empathize with your
  captor.


  Chris: Oh my gosh, this is so good. There is one scene I had to pause and just
  take a few deep breaths.


  Jen: Heavens to Betsy.


  Chris: Heavens to Betsy indeed Jen.


  Ari: Is that it for you this week?


  Chris: I'm going to stop now, I need a break.


  Ari: All right, Jen. Do you have any picks this week?


  Jen: So I have rediscovered Lottie. Anybody use Lottie for animations?


  Elizabeth: No.


  Jen: It was in my library built by the amazing books at Airbnb design and it
  is SVG Animations but it's ... what you do is you create them in After Effects
  which is kind of an issue because I don't have access anywhere, but I used to
  have access to After Effects. So if you're good at After Effects and you want
  to create these animations you can learn how to do that at Lottie and I think
  the website I'm looking at is lottiefiles.com, that's where all the exported
  animations are added in here. I hadn't used this stuff for a while, and then I
  went back to LottieFiles and I realized wow, it's really come a long ways. You
  can click on any animation and then you can change background color, you can
  edit land colors and then you can ... right online, and then you can download
  the animation that you like. A lot of it's for free and it's just absolutely
  lovely. There's a Vue plugin that you can use it for your Vue apps. I know for
  a fact it works with NativeScript. I was blown away with how far they've come
  with Lottie. So yay Airbnb, we love you, and very nice work with Lottie.


  Ari: All right, I guess it's my turn. So I'm actually going to be starting a
  new series of picks for myself. I don't know, I'm sure a lot of you are like
  me and when you're coding you can't listen to music that has words because
  then the typing is just a mess and you're typing what you're hearing and you
  have variables names completely ridiculous things like, I don't know, some
  Taylor Swift lyric. I was pointing at two of you.


  Elizabeth: Yeah, I was going to say that doesn't happen to you.


  Ari: No.


  Elizabeth: Also Chris, I expect next week-


  Chris: Yeah, did we infect you?


  Elizabeth: Chris, I expect next week you're pick is going to be Miss
  Americana.


  Chris: Why is that? Oh, are you talking about the-


  Elizabeth: Yes.


  Chris: Oh gosh, it is coming out on a very special day for me.


  Elizabeth: Is it?


  Chris: Yeah.


  Ari: Way to hijack my pick. Sort of my fault but whatever.


  Chris: I'm so excited for it, yeah.


  Ben: You did this to yourself Ari.


  Ari: I know I did, I totally did. But anyways, each week I'm going to, as one
  of my picks, if not my only pick, I will be picking a song from my personal
  playlist of songs I listen to while coding, and this week it is a song called
  CS60 by BADBADNOTGOOD. That's all one word, by the way. Actually while I was
  Googling to find links to various streaming services with this song, I think I
  have determined that CS60 is actually a reference to a Yamaha synth. It seemed
  like the most plausible thing. It's I guess considered instrumental hip hop
  though, traditionally BADBADNOTGOOD is a modern jazz ensemble so it has some
  jazz influence, but I'm not a big fan of jazz but I love this so, if you don't
  like jazz I think you'll like this. So, that is my one pick.


  Jen: Can I add one pick to mine, since we started talking about music?


  Ari: Go for it.


  Jen: You jogged my memory. We should do a shout out for the song Codaritus by
  Tamira James who is an absolutely fabulous lady in our community. She's also a
  past recording artist and she's recorded the song called Codaritus and you can
  look at it on Spotify. \[crosstalk 00:55:40], it's really good and it's great
  for a conference walking on song or whatever.


  Elizabeth: Awesome, my interest is piqued.


  Ari: Well I believe that is all for this weeks episode. Thanks for listening
  and until next time Enjoy the Vue.


  Speaker 7: This podcast is brought to you by our friends at Linode. With
  eleven data centers worldwide, including their newest data center in Sydney,
  Australia, enterprise grade hardware, S3 compatible storage option and their
  next generation network, Linode delivers the performance you expect at a price
  that you don't. Get started on Linode today by going to linode.com/Vue.
---

