episodes/34.md, before:

---
episode-number: 34
episode-title: Organizing Conferences and Events with Kevin Lewis
date-published: 2020-09-21T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-34.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/421eee90-81ba-4008-8ad3-fd187d2363cc.mp3
picks:
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - title: Emma (Comic)
        website: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emma_(manga)'
      - title: 킹덤 (Kingdom) (Kdrama)
        website: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_(South_Korean_TV_series)'
  - person: Ari Clark
    picks:
      - title: Stateless (Netflix)
        website: 'https://www.netflix.com/title/81206211'
  - person: Ben Hong
    picks:
      - title: VueConf Toronto
        website: 'https://vuetoronto.com/'
      - title: Connect.Tech
        website: 'http://connect.tech/'
shownotes: >+
  About our guest: Kevin Lewis

  - [Twitter @_phzn](https://twitter.com/_phzn)


  There are so many moving parts to organizing a conference, from seating and
  food, to making sure speakers feel respected, and creating networking
  opportunities for attendees. While the value of face-to-face interaction will
  never go away, there are times when going virtual is a necessary part of your
  event program, like a global pandemic, for instance. Today’s guest is Kevin
  Lewis, a Developer Advocate at Vonage, a Vue.js Developer, and an event
  organizer. In this episode, he shares what it’s like to organize events, the
  shift from IRL to virtual conferences in the wake of COVID-19, the software he
  uses to keep things running smoothly, and what he believes is lost when an
  event goes virtual (like networking). He also talks about some typical
  mistakes organizers make, practical scheduling, and creating opportunities for
  mingling, as well as the importance of over-communicating, his opinions on
  single-track versus multi-track conferences, and CFP or the talk selection
  process. Tune in to find out more!


  ## Key Points From This Episode

  - What brought Kevin to the Vue ecosystem, after struggling with the “magic”
  of React.

  - What Kevin’s day-to-day is like at Vonage when it comes to organizing
  events.

  - Shifting to virtual conferences and events, and how Kevin’s team has gone on
  to help others.

  - Some of the software Kevin has used for virtual conferences, like Remo and
  StreamYard.

  - Women of React was the first remote conference Kevin organized, and he
  learned a lot!

  - Event organizing versus remote conferencing – how Kevin started his career
  and what he thinks is lost when an event goes virtual.

  - Typical things Kevin sees conference organizers get wrong, from access
  points and WiFi to food, networking, and plants in the audience.

  - Scheduling – planning breaks, based on content of the conference,
  facilities, and buffer time.

  - It’s your responsibility as an event organizer to make sure that speakers
  feel respected.

  - When it comes to Q&A sessions, Kevin has some tips fro making sure it’s
  moderated well.

  - Kevin asks the panel what makes an event good for them as attendees – Ari
  says the hallway track or time between talks is vital.

  - Ben says he appreciates guidance for newer attendees on after parties and
  dinners, etc.

  - Tessa’s feedback includes structured activities for attendees to mingle,
  like bowling.

  - A firm structure for events and locations seems like a low barrier to entry,
  but it’s crucial.

  - Over-communicating is critical! Your audience needs to know if things in the
  program change.

  - Single-track versus multi-track conferences – it depends what you’re trying
  to achieve.

  - Selecting speakers – Kevin reacts to Ben’s story of a conference with a
  blind CFP survey.

  - Kevin talks about BarCamp London and the simple concept of an unconference.

  - The CFP or talk selection process, and Kevin’s take on it for an event like
  You Got This.

  - Keynote spots are a way to course-correct if your lineup isn’t diverse or
  goes off the rails.

  - The value of a mentorship program for first-time speakers to encourage and
  support them.


  Kevin's picks: 

  - [YouGotThis](http://yougotthis.io) (Conference)

  - [EventHandler](http://handler.events) (Newsletter)


  Resources mentioned:

  - [Women of React](https://womenofreact.com/)

  - [VueConf US 2020](https://us.vuejs.org/)

  - [Adulting.Dev](https://www.adulting.dev/)

  - [DevConf](https://www.devconf.info/)

  - [BarCamp London](https://twelve.barcamplondon.org/)

  - [humansconf](https://www.humansconf.org/)

  - [Remo](https://remo.co/)

  - [StreamYard](https://streamyard.com/)

  - [Kingdom of the Gods by
  YLAB](http://ylabcomics.com/bbs/board.php?bo_table=03_02_eng&wr_id=46&page=3&pg_position=46)

transcript: Coming soon!
---

Commit message:

Update e34 picks
Add Vonage API link at Kevin's request; update YLAB links

episodes/34.md, after:

---
episode-number: 34
episode-title: Organizing Conferences and Events with Kevin Lewis
date-published: 2020-09-21T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-34.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/421eee90-81ba-4008-8ad3-fd187d2363cc.mp3
picks:
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - title: Emma (Comic)
        website: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emma_(manga)'
      - title: 킹덤 (Kingdom) (Kdrama)
        website: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_(South_Korean_TV_series)'
  - person: Ari Clark
    picks:
      - title: Stateless (Netflix)
        website: 'https://www.netflix.com/title/81206211'
  - person: Ben Hong
    picks:
      - title: VueConf Toronto
        website: 'https://vuetoronto.com/'
      - title: Connect.Tech
        website: 'http://connect.tech/'
shownotes: >+
  About our guest: Kevin Lewis

  - [Twitter @_phzn](https://twitter.com/_phzn)


  There are so many moving parts to organizing a conference, from seating and
  food, to making sure speakers feel respected, and creating networking
  opportunities for attendees. While the value of face-to-face interaction will
  never go away, there are times when going virtual is a necessary part of your
  event program, like a global pandemic, for instance. Today’s guest is Kevin
  Lewis, a Developer Advocate at Vonage, a Vue.js Developer, and an event
  organizer. In this episode, he shares what it’s like to organize events, the
  shift from IRL to virtual conferences in the wake of COVID-19, the software he
  uses to keep things running smoothly, and what he believes is lost when an
  event goes virtual (like networking). He also talks about some typical
  mistakes organizers make, practical scheduling, and creating opportunities for
  mingling, as well as the importance of over-communicating, his opinions on
  single-track versus multi-track conferences, and CFP or the talk selection
  process. Tune in to find out more!


  ## Key Points From This Episode

  - What brought Kevin to the Vue ecosystem, after struggling with the “magic”
  of React.

  - What Kevin’s day-to-day is like at Vonage when it comes to organizing
  events.

  - Shifting to virtual conferences and events, and how Kevin’s team has gone on
  to help others.

  - Some of the software Kevin has used for virtual conferences, like Remo and
  StreamYard.

  - Women of React was the first remote conference Kevin organized, and he
  learned a lot!

  - Event organizing versus remote conferencing – how Kevin started his career
  and what he thinks is lost when an event goes virtual.

  - Typical things Kevin sees conference organizers get wrong, from access
  points and WiFi to food, networking, and plants in the audience.

  - Scheduling – planning breaks, based on content of the conference,
  facilities, and buffer time.

  - It’s your responsibility as an event organizer to make sure that speakers
  feel respected.

  - When it comes to Q&A sessions, Kevin has some tips fro making sure it’s
  moderated well.

  - Kevin asks the panel what makes an event good for them as attendees – Ari
  says the hallway track or time between talks is vital.

  - Ben says he appreciates guidance for newer attendees on after parties and
  dinners, etc.

  - Tessa’s feedback includes structured activities for attendees to mingle,
  like bowling.

  - A firm structure for events and locations seems like a low barrier to entry,
  but it’s crucial.

  - Over-communicating is critical! Your audience needs to know if things in the
  program change.

  - Single-track versus multi-track conferences – it depends what you’re trying
  to achieve.

  - Selecting speakers – Kevin reacts to Ben’s story of a conference with a
  blind CFP survey.

  - Kevin talks about BarCamp London and the simple concept of an unconference.

  - The CFP or talk selection process, and Kevin’s take on it for an event like
  You Got This.

  - Keynote spots are a way to course-correct if your lineup isn’t diverse or
  goes off the rails.

  - The value of a mentorship program for first-time speakers to encourage and
  support them.


  Kevin's picks: 

  - [YouGotThis](http://yougotthis.io) (Conference)

  - [EventHandler](http://handler.events) (Newsletter)


  Resources mentioned:

  - [Vonage API Developer Platform](https://developer.nexmo.com)

  - [Women of React](https://womenofreact.com/)

  - [VueConf US 2020](https://us.vuejs.org/)

  - [Adulting.Dev](https://www.adulting.dev/)

  - [DevConf](https://www.devconf.info/)

  - [BarCamp London](https://twelve.barcamplondon.org/)

  - [humansconf](https://www.humansconf.org/)

  - [Remo](https://remo.co/)

  - [StreamYard](https://streamyard.com/)

  - [Kingdom of the Gods by Kim Eunhee & Yang Kyungil](http://ylabcomics.com/bbs/board.php?bo_table=03_02_eng&wr_id=46&page=3&pg_position=46)

  - [Distant Sky by Yoon Inwan & Kim Sunhee](http://ylabcomics.com/bbs/board.php?bo_table=03_02_eng&wr_id=44&page=2&pg_position=44)

transcript: Coming soon!
---
