---
episode-number: 37
episode-title: 'Community is Everything: Open Source with Henry Zhu (Part 2)'
date-published: 2020-10-12T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-37.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/7ec3d9b2-ab56-4732-8df4-ec2f269962eb.mp3
sponsors: []
shownotes: "In the previous episode, we discussed open source with Henry Zhu, core maintainer of the community-funded compiler,\_Babel. We closed on the responsibilities of an open source maintainer and, in this show, we are continuing our discussion with Henry, starting with what responsibilities do open source maintainers have in terms of shaping the future of the projects that they maintain? Henry also shares his views on governance structures, burnout, focusing on new ideas and making time for side projects, as well as accountability versus ability, the individual versus the group, and free will versus obligation. Tune in today!\n\n**Key Points From This Episode:**\n- Henry opens with the incentive to make things more complicated, instead of simplifying them.\n- Henry’s goal is to help people understand that they have an impact on the language they use.\n- There are different governance structures in open source – boundaries are necessary.\n- Cycles of burnout and why developers feel a sense of obligation to open source projects.\n- From individual contributor to a maintainer role – some things that Henry found useful.\n- What will change the way we do programming is different ideas, not the same ones.\n- Henry is giving himself the freedom to think differently and pay attention to side projects.\n- Balancing accountability and ability – Henry believes he should have freedom of choice, but he also needs to consider external opinion.\n- The individual versus the group – how to distinguish people with distinct views and stories.\n- The different types of maintenance work in open source and why roles are helpful.\n- Just say no – Henry describes the struggle for maintainers and the dichotomy between free will and obligation.\n\n**Tweetables:**\n- “Culturally, everyone wants to make their project viral, but then after that happens, it just becomes a burden. I don't want to discourage people from doing open source. Be more real about what the reality is of what you will feel when it happens.” — @left_pad [0:05:50]\n\n- “The things that are actually going to change how we're going to do programming is something different, not the same thing.” — @left_pad [0:11:30]\n\n- “In open source, maybe we have this good and bad, the whole meritocracy thing, and the whole code is what matters, so why do you care about the person behind it? I think that's good in the sense of it doesn't emphasize people and it shows that it's a group effort. The bad thing in some sense, in terms of funding, would be that the more you make it about the group, the more it feels like no one knows who you are.” — @left_pad [0:17:23]\n\n- “The currency of open source is not the code, because you can reproduce that and consume that as much as possible, and doesn't affect maintainers. The thing that you're affecting is their attention and their time. The more people that consume open source, it might mean more people making issues and consuming more time, but it doesn't mean that those maintainers have to do it.” — @left_pad [0:23:46]\n\n**Links Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**\n- [Henry Zhu on Twitter](https://twitter.com/left_pad?lang=en)\n- [Henry Zhu on GitHub](https://github.com/hzoo)\_\n- [Henry Zhu](https://www.henryzoo.com/)\n- [Hope in Source Podcast](https://hopeinsource.com/)\n- [Maintainers Anonymous Podcast](https://maintainersanonymous.com/)\n- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)\n- [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en)\n- [Enjoy the Vue](https://enjoythevue.io/)"
transcript: >
  [00:00:10] T: Hi, everybody. Welcome back to Enjoy The Vue. I’m Tessa. Today
  we have Ben Hong, Ari Clark, guest panelist Vikas Ashoka, and special guest,
  Henry Zhu.


  Last week’s episode, we closed on what are the responsibilities of an open
  source maintainer? This week, we're continuing our talk with Henry, starting
  with what responsibilities do open source maintainers have in terms of shaping
  the future of the projects that they maintain?


  [00:00:41] HZ: Instead, we should be thinking about how to remove options and
  make things simpler. The incentive is to add things, because it's easier to
  tweet about, or market. Spending the time to think of an actually better
  solution that's simpler, takes a long time that doesn't have output. I think
  as a maintainer you're like, “Well, I don't see the benefit of this.” I’d
  rather fix a bug, because it makes me feel better that I did something
  incrementally.


  I think that's a struggle that's really hard to get over. This is true in any
  job, right? Fixing bugs might be easier than trying to refactor, or just
  literally come up with something new. Then now that I’m in a role where I’m
  not really writing as much code, I’m always thinking like, “Am I even doing
  anything?” What am I even doing for the project, being a “leader”? Going on
  podcasts, talking to people that supposedly has nothing to do with code from
  the outside, but to me, it says a lot about the whole open source is not about
  code, it's about other things.


  [00:01:38] T: Yeah. I’m curious to hear more about these ideas, or the
  struggle, especially when it gets away from you. In increment, I think you
  wrote about how the users of Babel really wanted to use unsolidified features
  in JavaScript and how it was a struggle for you, if I understood correctly,
  about whether you should encourage that or not and how to deal with it,
  because regardless of how you would handle it, people were integrating the
  next version, even though it might change and break things going down the
  road. When that happens to you, what's your thought process there, or how do
  you deal with that?


  [00:02:17] HZ: Yeah. Actually, that's a really good specific example of the
  problem we're talking about, of how open should you be and how close should
  you be to feedback or contribution? What we're talking about here is
  basically, the idea that most languages don't really allow you to have any
  feedback to where the future of the language goes, I think. Just think about
  Java, or Python, or whatever. They have committees and you can talk to them
  and e-mail them and stuff like that, but it's not as – I use the word
  democratic, I guess, as JavaScript, where there is a sense where you could
  propose something, and bring it up to the committee, and then even implement
  in Babel. If you get enough people using it, it'll probably go in, even if it
  takes a few years.


  That's a lot more, I guess, possible than other languages, where you might not
  even think that's an option. I think, most people don't think that, but one of
  my, I guess, goals with Babel as a really high-level is helping people
  understand that you can have an impact on the language that you use and also
  the tooling that you use. Instead of just using it and just, we talk about the
  ivory tower a lot, but it's painted down from the TC39 gods, or something.
  It's like, no. They're just regular developers too.


  I’ve been to some meetings. I’m just a developer as well. Most of the time, no
  idea what's going on. That's another admission that you don't have to know
  exactly what's going on to make those contributions. I guess, I’m hoping that,
  because we have this tool that allows you to use proposals before they come
  out, new syntax, I think that's a good thing. You can see the bad side is,
  well, what if the extreme opposite would be that everyone has their own
  proposal, they don't even ask anyone, they make their own plugins and then
  JavaScript becomes this monster of you go on GitHub and there's just all the
  syntax, you have no idea what's going on.


  That's the fear that people have, of allowing anyone to say whatever they
  want, because most people just don't know how to write a programming language,
  literally how to add new features. You could say that's gatekeeping, and be
  like, “Well, who are you to say who's allowed to do it?” That's the whole
  point. We want people to contribute, just like we want people to tweet. We
  want people to make comments but, at some point, you need some kind of
  barrier. It just sounds bad saying that – or boundaries. We have these things
  everywhere. We just, I guess a lot of times, they're implicit. I mean, maybe
  making them implicit is a good thing, but we just don't like the idea of doing
  that. It's a hard decision to draw a line for any of this stuff. We talk about
  borders for countries, or membership, or citizenship. These are all things
  that are like, well, I think that's what I mean by assumptions. We all want as
  many people as possible to do that.


  If you thought about the idea of design by committee and you have a 1,000
  people trying to make a language, it probably won't work really well. People
  already hate the idea that TC39s, like 50 people or whatever it is, instead of
  one. We also know the problem of people always say that BDFL isn't good, or
  something like that. Yeah, this does get into this –


  [00:05:22] T: That’s benevolent dictator for life, right?


  [00:05:25] HZ: Just different governance, structures in open source. Something
  that most developers have no idea about, or experience with. You do your open
  search project by yourself and then it gets popular and then that's a bad
  thing, because now you feel you have to do something about it.


  I feel we almost need some weird – I don't think we need training, like I’m
  going to make a manual, this is how you do open source. When you're
  successful, do this. It's just more, culturally, everyone wants to make their
  project viral, but then after that happens, it just becomes a burden. I don't
  want to discourage people from doing open source. It's just like, be more real
  about what the reality is of what you will feel when it happens.


  You might not feel that way personally, but I’m just saying that just
  generally, that's what happens and cycle of burnout and stuff like that. That
  same thing, it's like, even saying something negative about open source may be
  part of the same idea of being open. It's really hard to bring up these
  conversations, other than I think through a podcast or talk, because people
  will just assume you have bad intentions or something. I don't know.


  [00:06:29] BH: Yeah. One of the challenging things that I think you bring up,
  Henry, is that a lot of us when we joined open source, we're joining us
  individual contributors. A lot of us can know what that's like joining a
  company, a new team, and so you're eager to work on tickets, and build things,
  or fix bugs. Then I think to your point of when you move into that maintainer
  role, or in the instance, in my experience of joining the core team, you
  almost are in more of a manager role now and less of an IC, but you have
  individual contributor responsibilities too.


  I think maybe, that's part of the difficulties, is there's no one there to
  help you with the transition. To your point, other times in a company, if
  you're going to become a team lead and manage five people, you've had people
  help you with manager training, or those things to help you transition from
  one to another. I’m wondering if you found any resources, or processes you
  went through to help you transition. Because my background's in psychology, so
  it was a little bit easier for me to make that transition from more of an
  individual contributor to more managerial.


  Yeah, be curious if you have any thoughts on that?


  [00:07:27] HZ: Yeah. I’ve never had any formal training in any of this. I
  think that's one of those things where you have a lot of self-doubt where
  you're like, “Am I doing a good job?” How do you evaluate yourself? Are your
  peers even going to do that? Other maintainers, you don't have a boss telling
  you.


  I think that those things are things we normally don't want anyway. We don't
  want a boss telling us what to do and those things, right? We don't want to go
  to trainings that sometimes are not even helpful at all. A lot of us would
  like to say that the experience that we have by doing it is a lot more helpful
  than watching some videos, or listening to some talk. True, I think you
  definitely need both. I don't want to say like,  “Oh, I did a good job.” The
  project still exists, so I guess I had some part to do with that.


  I don't think anyone can really say, “Oh, you did a good job or not.” There's
  no book you can read, or other people to follow. You're on your own project.
  Every project is different. I think that's hard. I think maybe one thing I’m
  thinking about a lot too is just, we really need certainty. We really need
  this standard that we're doing the right thing and we don't have that. I
  think, maybe it's an illusion to think that we had that in the first place. I
  think that's what I mean, by faith has a lot to do with it. Not religious
  faith, just faith in general, of sometimes you got to take a risk. Sometimes,
  the things that you're working on, especially the things are important,
  there's no answers. No one's really figured it out and you're probably going
  to make mistakes.


  I think, maybe the struggle with some of the stuff is that we just assume that
  everyone is fixed in their way of thinking, or how they do things. Whether
  they're smart, or not, or whether they did something wrong or bad, people
  change. If you think about code, even though the code runs, if someone doesn't
  understand how the code works, I think I mentioned this in the talk, the code
  in some sense is dead, because the people that wrote it maybe aren't there
  anymore and it's a lot of work to rebuild the knowledge that a maintainer has.
  That's why they're so valuable. That's why it's so hard to replace someone,
  anyone in your company.


  They could have spent their whole time documenting every single thing in their
  head. They don't even know the things that they should be writing down. The
  way that comes out is through talking to them and working with them. When they
  leave, if your project only has three people and one person leaves, it feels
  the whole project is over sometimes.


  [00:09:45] T: Yeah, it's interesting. You mentioned influencers on podcasts
  and it sounds like you have all the downsides, or I guess, the more work-heavy
  aspects of it, like this community that you're perceived as being responsible
  for and this almost, obligation, or public expectation that you'll keep on
  pumping out content.


  I’d like to take a brief tangent and revisit this idea of – well, you didn't
  really put this way, but this is how my brain interpreted it, this potential
  for having an urban dictionary for JavaScript or something, where anybody can
  decide where the future of the language goes as it evolves in use.


  [00:10:20] HZ: I like that.


  [00:10:21] T: Make it happen. I want to see that fire.


  [00:10:24] HZ: Urban.js.


  [00:10:26] AC: Oh, God.


  [00:10:27] T: Yeah. Because one thing that struck me when I was learning
  JavaScript and Ruby, I guess it stood out a little bit more even, was that
  everything is really dependent on knowing English. A few weeks ago, you
  tweeted an experiment about aliasing variable names and things to other
  languages. I’m curious, when you have ideas like that that don't really fit
  into maybe what people see as your main responsibility, like Babel or
  something, how do you find the time, or how do you fit that in? Is it an
  internal struggle to justify doing those things for yourself?


  [00:10:59] HZ: Yeah. I would put it that way, because even if you're paid, I
  guess – if you're not at a company. Like we said, no one's telling me what to
  do. There's an internal fear of people saying, “Why are you spending your time
  doing this?” I don't know if anyone would actually do that. Of course, if I
  actually did something bad, yeah, it'd be good if someone told me. It's like,
  what is our freedom for? I’m like, if the freedom I have in doing open source
  to maintain Babel is just fixing some bugs, I feel it's not a good use of my
  time even. Why not think about these things?


  The things that are actually going to change how we're going to do programming
  is something different, not the same thing. We could all just implement a
  bunch of proposals. It's so obvious enough, those are the things that you
  should be paying for. Someone should just be paid to write some proposals,
  write code mods to switch people over when decorators are not there and people
  are still trying to get rid of them. Browsers should be just paying people,
  either us, or they just do it themselves to make these transforms, because
  they have an incentive to do this, because if people only use Babel and then
  the output is the ES5 version that Babel will transformed, we're not even
  running the code that is native in ES6 native code that they wrote in C++ or
  whatever it was.


  Those are supposedly faster, if they keep optimizing it. The code size is
  less. When they want people – they should want to make Babel take advantage of
  preset EMV and compile less code, basically, but that's not happening. If you
  think about it, we have no incentive to do any of this stuff. I was just
  thinking about, it's like, why are we doing this? It's just because we want to
  and there’s, I guess, good will that is dying in people's minds maybe. I don't
  know. It's a cynical way of thinking about it. Yeah, in terms of the side
  project thing, it's like, I’m trying to I guess, give myself the freedom to
  think differently, because culturally, we came up with this definition
  maintainer that if you think of maintainer, it just means fix bugs, make
  releases.


  I guess, maybe one way of combating that is just instead of saying that code
  isn't all there is, I should just do it myself. It's hard to do that, because
  you need some encouragement from other people like, “Hey, this is a good
  thing. I like that you're doing this.” That's where internal motivation,
  external motivation go hand in hand, where it's like, you might have a lot of
  conviction and that's the right thing to do, but if you see that no one cares,
  you're still going to feel not good about it, even though you shouldn't be
  doing things for people's validation. It's good to have a community of
  accountability and friends to help you, in anything, honestly.


  [00:13:38] T: Yeah. How do you balance accountability as opposed to your own
  ability to determine what's right, or what you want to be doing next? Because
  I feel it's really easy for those lines to get blurred. Either internalize
  what everybody else wants you to do, or just be like, “I’m not going to listen
  to anybody. I’m always right.” How do you find that balance?


  [00:14:00] HZ: I don't think I found it, so I’ll just say that. What's funny
  is I say that and other people are like, “Wow, you totally look like you
  have.” I was like, it's so weird because internally, I don't feel that way. I
  don't know if that's good or bad, it's just how I see myself, I guess. Yeah, I
  think it is easy, our culture somehow is very individualistic, but then also,
  group-oriented at the same time in different ways. The way we think about our
  choices, we’re the whole free, rational choice people.


  Yeah, I am myself and I can do whatever I want. Then just think about the
  current time, like a pandemic and the choices we make affect other people and
  this is the obvious thing that, I guess, not everyone thinks is obvious. I
  don’t know. It's hard to think that at the same time, I should have the
  freedom to choose things, but I should take into account how people feel. Even
  if you don't know how they feel, just how that affects other people. I think,
  it's a hard decision now, because it feels almost every decision you make can
  be a negative thing, even the idea of buying something from a big company and
  you're like, “Oh, that is a bad thing.” Something recently is taking money
  from companies.


  It's funny. If you think about taking donations, if you don't actually do
  this, it never crossed my mind. I was like, “Well, who is that coming from?”
  You just think like, “Oh, I just accept it from anyone.” Then you're like,
  “Well, what if someone gives you money that you don't you like?” You have to
  figure out are you going to reject it, or not.


  Obviously, if there's a legal activity, you can't, but you don't like this
  company, or other people don't like this company. It's just a hard thing to
  think about, versus maybe at the end, you should just stop doing all this and
  just go to a company and get a salary. Even that, it's like, well, the company
  that I work at, are they always doing the right thing? It's like, I don't
  know. We have this purity type of culture too, where it's like, everything has
  to be perfect, I guess.


  Right now, yeah, it is true that almost everything we do can be harmful. We
  have to make decisions and I guess, accept that there will be consequences.
  Yeah, I think it's really easy, that line of thinking to turn into I don't
  want to do anything. I’m just going to sit in my room thing, even if you have
  the privilege of doing that, but yeah.


  [00:16:15] VA: Something this conversation is bringing up for me, thinking of
  funding and this bonus on you the maintainer, what the maintainers role is and
  institutions, I think I heard you and Nadia talking about this on your
  podcast. I’m curious how you think of this dichotomy between you are this
  group-oriented activity working in open source, but also, this individualism
  of having a Henry Zhu brand.


  Some model that I thought was really interesting that Nadia brought up in the
  conversation I heard was should maintainers and as a result, should GitHub and
  other organizations, promote more of a creator-focused culture? Should there
  be a Henry Zhu brand, where Henry Zhu is sponsored, like Twitch streamers, or
  YouTube artists, or even folks who make tutorials for stuff like Babel?


  [00:17:09] HZ: I think this is something that she was trying to get at at the
  end of her book. I think in the podcast, she was mentioning that, in some
  ways, this has already happened in all the other places, like streaming and
  YouTube and stuff. We call them creators, but then in open source, maybe we
  have this good and bad, the whole meritocracy thing, and the whole code is
  what matters, so why do you care about the person behind it? I think that's
  good in the sense of it doesn't emphasize people and it shows that it's a
  group effort.


  The bad thing in some sense, in terms of funding, would be that, well, the
  more you make it about the group, the more it feels like no one knows who you
  are. I think, one of the reasons why sponsorship works is because of the fact
  that para-social thing makes it look like you know them really well. You see
  their face, you hear them all the time. If you give a talk every once in a
  while, like some people are well-known. With a YouTube channel, they're always
  talking every week, or day, or something. There's a community that is built
  around this person. You could call it a cult or something.


  I guess, in some sense, that's good. I think we all have this weird reaction
  to that. We talk about secure worship and stuff like that all the time. It'll
  just naturally happen, I guess. How do we balance those two things? We're
  like, how can we make sure that we know that these individuals are distinct
  people and they have different views on things and have their own stories that
  are very personal, that maybe some of them should be out there? At the same
  time, it's a group thing.


  I think, one problem that we have now is, well, I’m able to fund myself for
  Babel full-time at this point and that's still a struggle. I’m doing this with
  other people. If I want to be individualistic, then, yeah, I don't need to
  care about how much money they're making, or if they're going to stick around.
  The only reason why I can do this is because of these other people, not just
  because of the code, but even mentally and just emotionally, we get to help
  each other out in that way. I have an incentive and I want to help them. It's
  hard. That social capital doesn't really transfer, I think. If I tweeted,
  “Hey, you should sponsor Nikola, or Brian, other people on our team,” it
  doesn't mean anyone's going to actually do that.


  I don't even tweet it by myself, because I know that just because someone saw
  that they're not going to pay money just to sponsor you. I don't feel I want
  to advertise that, I guess, because if they only did it because they saw that,
  they're probably going to not donate in the future anyway. They're going to
  stop pretty soon. I’m okay with not getting a few dollars just because they
  didn't see. I rather have people that really want to support me and I’m
  actually doing something they want, versus just that was cool or something.
  That's just my thinking around that. Obviously, there are people that like
  saying the whole subscribe thing. If I made a YouTube channel, I don't want to
  do that.


  To me, it's like, if you really care, why do I have to go out my way to say
  it. If anything, all these other YouTubers are saying it for me, but for
  themselves. Everyone knows. I just don't see why it's necessary.


  [00:20:07] T: Well, since Henry won't say it, I’ll let our listeners know.
  Don't forget to visit henryzhu.com to see the latest merch drop.


  [00:20:15] BH: Zhu swag. Yeah.


  [00:20:18] VA: I’m standing in line at 6 p.m. the night before when it comes
  out, just so you know.


  [00:20:24] T: It strikes me that there's so many different types of
  maintenance work in open source. For example, even with the advertisers;
  vetting the advertisers and deciding what goes on the site, working with all
  of these services allow you to take in sponsorships and donations. That's just
  one type of different maintenance, versus going through the issues, versus
  reviewing pull requests and stuff. I’m curious if there's a sub-culture, or a
  sub-community in open source that's dedicated to more of that side of things?


  Because even with YouTubers, they have their editing team, their PR team,
  their merch team. With open source, it feels like, well, you just do all the
  things and you can figure it out by yourself. If you mess up, that's your
  fault. You should have done a better job.


  Yeah, how do you manage that? Or do you think that we can move towards a place
  where those things are more easy to handle?


  [00:21:17] HZ: Yeah. I guess, the idea of roles could be helpful. We have that
  at work too. I feel with open source, it would be nice to say more like, you
  are a lead, or just focusing on this thing, but it doesn't mean you can't do
  these other things. Also, you don't want to – the same idea of you don't want
  to impose things on people. I’m not anyone's boss either, so I’m not going to
  be like, “You have to do this.”


  The bad part of that is well, if we only do what we want then there are
  definitely going to be things that are untouched, or unmaintained. The whole
  advertising, or sponsorship thing is just not something we think about. I
  think the reason why you find all this spam showing up is you see it and
  you're like, “Okay. I’ll try to get rid of some stuff.” Then later, you don't
  realize it's a huge problem. Now this has come to light, it's like, “Oh, this
  is actually a whole task that you have to vet through these things,” of people
  giving you $1 and trying to show up on your website or something. It makes me
  question, do we even want any pictures on our website anymore at all, just
  because you have to deal with this? The pain of that is just not helpful.


  Then also, because they think they're going to get SEO benefit and I think
  most of us put this real sponsored link, so that it's not supposed to. I’m
  wondering why they are even doing it. If you're a big company giving us money,
  they don't need SEO benefit for sure. I don't think they really care
  necessarily that their logo is up there. I’m sure they want something to show
  that they're doing something, because it makes them look better, like goodwill
  in the community.


  Then also, you might question like, “Well, we're getting money from these
  people. Isn't that a good thing? At least, we're taking it away from people.”
  That's what people say. I don't know. It's hard questions. I think these are
  things that like I said, it's hard to talk about just casually, because yeah,
  it's hard.


  It is assumed that you need to do everything. I think, maybe the reason why I
  even decided to be a leader, if you even want to call it that, is just because
  nobody did it. I think, that's how open source works unfortunately now, where
  the only reason why you get to where you are is because nobody cared about the
  thing that you cared about and then they're focused on something else. They're
  like, “Hey, you seem pretty motivated. All right you're a maintainer now.”
  Great. You just give them a bunch of responsibility.


  At first, it sounds like an opportunity and it turns into a burden if you
  don't know how to manage that. I think that's where the whole
  over-participation stuff matters and the whole idea of the currency of open
  source is not the code, because you can reproduce that and consume that as
  much as possible, and doesn't affect maintainers. The thing that you're
  affecting is their attention and their time.


  The more people that consume open source, it might mean more people making
  issues and consuming more time, but it doesn't mean that those maintainers
  have to do it. That's where I mean by saying no, it’s so hard. It's so funny
  that in the end, it's like, maintainers are so free to do whatever they want
  and, in the end, the culture, the environment makes you feel you're not free.
  You can choose to stop answering people's tweets, or issues, or whatever it
  is. Just say no, right? Stop working on the weekends. Stop working during
  work.


  I think, just saying no as a tweet or something, doesn't show that you
  empathize and understand the actual feeling that you get doing it. I think
  that's the real struggle of how do we help people, so that they can do that? I
  think that maybe needs some help from the platform too, like GitHub and stuff
  like that.


  [00:24:52] T: That's all for this week's episode. Join us next week as we talk
  more with Henry about what counts as maintenance work. Until next time, enjoy
  the Vue.


  [END]
---
