---
episode-number: 38
episode-title: 'Community is Everything: Open Source with Henry Zhu (Part 3)'
date-published: 2020-10-19T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-38.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/7f2bf677-9c14-494c-9830-42fc5220687d.mp3
picks:
  - person: Ben Hong
    picks:
      - title: Ukulele - instrument
        website: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ukulele'
      - title: Azul - board game
        website: 'https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/230802/azul'
      - title: ' Working in Public (Nadia Eghbal) - book'
        website: 'https://press.stripe.com/#working-in-public'
  - person: Ari Clark
    picks:
      - title: Grey's Anatomy - ABC
        website: ' https://abc.com/shows/greys-anatomy'
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - title: 'Journey (PS3, PS4, Steam, PC, MacOS) - game'
        website: 'https://thatgamecompany.com/journey/'
      - title: 응답하라 1988 (Reply 1988) - Netflix
        website: 'https://www.netflix.com/jp-en/title/80188351'
      - title: '翼をください (Tsubasa wo Kudasai) (Yamagami Michio, Murai Kunihiko) - song'
        website: 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsubasa_o_Kudasai'
      - title: >-
          Conquer Your Critical Inner Voice (Robert W. Firestone, Lisa
          Firestone, Joyce Catlett) - book 
        website: >-
          https://bookshop.org/books/conquer-your-critical-inner-voice-a-revolutionary-program-to-counter-negative-thoughts-and-live-free-from-imagined-limitations-9781572242876/9781572242876
shownotes: "Welcome back to another episode of Enjoy the Vue. This concludes our three-part interview with Babel maintainer, Henry Zhu. Last time, we closed our discussion with what work maintainers of open source projects do that is not straight coding. In this episode, we continue talking with Henry about what do people count as maintenance work versus other tasks that definitely need to get done, but are perhaps less visible to the public eye. Henry also shares his approaches to taking care of himself and the pursuit of serendipity, and we discuss the inclusivity of the open source community, the relationship between in-person communities and open source culture, and we get into our picks of the week, so make sure not to miss this episode!\n\n**Key Points From This Episode:**\n- Henry opens with the dichotomy between freedom and obligation for maintainers.\n- Maintainers don’t see certain tasks as maintenance, such as answering user queries.\n- What Henry does to take care of himself, like sport or playing music, and his musings on what serendipity looks like in an online setting.\n- Spaces that promote serendipity, and why actively pursuing serendipity is not a paradox.\n- There are communities like Google Summer of Code that promote open source involvement.\n- Preferences are shaped through experiences of the communities, so it is important that they be inclusive, particularly for women.\n- The relationship between in-person communities and open source culture.\n- Ben’s picks this week include a ukulele, Azul, and Nadia Eghbal’s book, Working in Public.\n- Veekas recommends Kim’s Convenience and Race After Technology by Ruha Benjamin.\n- Henry’s picks include Tools for Conviviality by Ivan Illich, and a card game called The Mind.\n- Tessa suggests Journey, the Reply series, and Conquer Your Critical Inner Voice.\n\n**Tweetables:**\n- “How do we get people to have a higher sense of ownership so that we can lessen the burden on maintainers?” — @left_pad [0:02:37]\n\n- “There's an aspect of serendipity involves risk, and involves trust and faith in something, in the future. Me putting myself out there is going to lead to something good.” — @left_pad [0:05:50]\n\n- “I feel being more intentional, specifically reaching out to people, or getting involved in certain communities is probably better. There are formal versions of this, like Google Summer of Code. We've done that and Rails Girls, Summer of Code, stuff like that. Yeah, maybe we need more of that, instead of this blanket like, ‘Hey, anyone can get involved.’” — @left_pad [0:07:48]\n\n- “For a tool, we want self-expression from the people that use it and I think coding is – or anything, [Illich] mentions education, and school, and medicine, and coding could be another thing where it's increasingly harder to learn how to code, even though now we have boot camps and stuff.” — @left_pad [0:17:46]\n\n**Picks of the week:**\n- Veekas\n    - [Kim's Convenience](https://www.netflix.com/title/80199128) - Netflix\n    - [\"Race After Technology\" by Ruha Benjamin](https://www.ruhabenjamin.com/race-after-technology)\n- Henry\n    - [Tools for Conviviality](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/04/why-the-landline-telephone-was-the-perfect-tool/255930/) (Ivan Illich) - book\n    - \"[The Mind](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/244992/mind)\" - board game\n\n**Links Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**\n- [Henry Zhu on Twitter](https://twitter.com/left_pad?lang=en)\n- [Henry Zhu on GitHub](https://github.com/hzoo)\_\n- [Henry Zhu](https://www.henryzoo.com/)\n- [Hope in Source Podcast](https://hopeinsource.com/)\n- [Maintainers Anonymous Podcast](https://maintainersanonymous.com/)\n- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)\n- [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/archive/)\n- [Rails Girls](http://railsgirls.com/)\n- [Vue Vixens](https://www.vuevixens.org/)\n- [Working in Public](https://www.amazon.com/Working-Public-Making-Maintenance-Software/dp/0578675862)\n- [Journey](https://thatgamecompany.com/journey/)\n- [Conquer Your Critical Inner Voice](https://www.amazon.com/Conquer-Your-Critical-Inner-Voice/dp/1572242876/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=Conquer+Your+Critical+Inner+Voice&qid=1601904786&sr=8-1)\n- [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en)\n"
transcript: >-
  EPISODE 38


  [00:00:10] T: Hi, everyone. Welcome back to Enjoy The Vue with Tessa, Ben
  Hong, Ari Clark, guest panelist, Veekas Ashoka, and special guest, Babel
  maintainer, Henry Zhu.


  Last time, we closed our discussion on what work maintainers of open source
  projects do that are not straight coding. This week, we continue talking with
  Henry about what do people count as maintenance work versus other tasks that
  definitely need to get done, but are perhaps less visible to the public eye.


  [00:00:43] HZ: Maintainers are so free to do whatever they want. In the end,
  the culture, the environment makes you feel you're not free. You can choose to
  stop answering people's tweets, or issues, or whatever it is. Just say no,
  right? Stop working on the weekends, stop working during work.


  I think just saying, just saying no as a tweet or something doesn't show that
  you empathize and understand the actual feeling that you get doing it. I think
  that's the real struggle of how do we help people, so that they can do that? I
  think that maybe needs some help from the platform too, like GitHub and stuff
  like that, but it's a hard problem.


  [00:01:20] T: I wonder also how much of that is just tied into, beyond people,
  just coders probably are interested in code, I guess, but also just how we
  value the outputs that people give. In your increment piece, you mentioned how
  you did a lot of work, but you didn't count it as work in the beginning with
  JSCS, I think, or Babel? I don't remember which one. Now if you look back on
  it, you probably wouldn't say that just because it wasn't necessarily like
  PRs.


  I thought it was interesting earlier when you were looking back on the work
  and you were like, “Yeah, I didn't really do anything, but Seb called me out
  in a blog post or something.” I was like, “Well, according to the increment
  piece, Henry did it a lot.” I wonder if a lot of the struggle is also just
  because we don't really see the other maintenance aspects as glorious, or
  something.


  [00:02:05] HZ: We don't see certain tasks as maintenance. Even things that we
  didn't even know were maintenance. I guess, somebody had to do it. Answering
  people's questions is maintenance, like making a video about something,
  maintenance. You don't even have to be the person writing the code for the
  project. Everyone here, you could be a part of the Vue community just by using
  Vue. It's a lot more broad. it doesn't mean you have the same type of
  ownership over a project. If something happens, maybe you don't feel as strong
  about certain things, but I guess, it's like, how do we get people to have a
  higher sense of ownership so that we can lessen the burden on maintainers?
  Also, maybe the idea that maintainers should be able to – I use this a lot,
  but taking a break, or resting, or just stopping stuff.


  It is true that if you leave, yeah, it will be ruined in some sense, because
  no one has the knowledge that you have, even if you're trying really hard. The
  world's not crouching down just because you decided to not look at some issues
  for an hour, or a day, or a week.


  Basically, I’m just saying that you should be able to take a vacation and not
  feel bad about it. That's hard to say, like I’m not really doing that either.


  [00:03:15] VA: I guess, on that note, Henry, I know you also from living in
  New York City and seeing your own stuff, and so I know for a fact that you do
  do some things to take care of yourself personally and to introduce some joy
  into your life, just as a human being.


  I’m curious, how do you do that? What do you do to make sure that you have
  that joy that you need?


  [00:03:35] HZ: That's a good question. I feel like I relied a lot on the
  physical aspects of things. Maybe now is almost, I guess a good thing in terms
  of reminding me how much I rely on it and appreciating it more, people doing
  sports, or playing music, or meeting people. Like I was writing in that blog
  post about serendipity. A lot of it in New York has to do with the fact of
  going outside, not having a car and just meeting people randomly on the
  street, people you don't know and people you know, and that's not really
  happening now, because obviously, the quarantine and distancing.


  I was still thinking about how does this work online? What does serendipity
  look like in an online setting? Even if it's not outside, people go to a bar,
  I guess, to meet people, or a park, or whatever it is, a church, for different
  reasons and you get to meet people. I think online, supposedly that's Twitter,
  or something like that, right? You want this open space where some amount of
  people you can see. It's not everyone and you might make a connection. You
  make a friend or something like that. I don't know what that looks like now
  and I don't know how many people are thinking about that.


  [00:04:47] VA: Yeah, it's interesting, because we try to make up for it with
  Zoom happy hours. Thank God, no one has invited me to one of those in the last
  month or so. I think people gave up. I’m curious, when you think of
  serendipity, what makes a mindset, or a physical location, or a culture make
  it something that promotes serendipity? Have you seen any online spaces, or do
  of any online spaces that mimic that?


  [00:05:10] HZ: Yeah, I don't know. When I was thinking about New York, I was
  thinking about the ethos, or culture of New York. I don't know how to describe
  what it's like. For those of us that live there, I think there's some reason
  why we stay, and I guess, even now why we're staying. That's an interesting
  point too. Now that we can't meet people in person as much, is there still
  serendipity there as the culture of New York still exists?


  I think you definitely have to be able to feel safe and, I guess, be willing
  to be vulnerable. I guess, what I come back to is this idea of putting
  yourself out there and being okay with what happens. I think that's really
  difficult to do, which is why people always go the safe route. There's an
  aspect of serendipity involves risk, and involves trust and faith in
  something, in the future. Me putting myself out there is going to lead to
  something good. I know that in that sense, it sounds too, I guess, optimistic
  and positive and even maybe a little new agey, or whatever.


  If you don't have the opportunity to do that, then I don't see how it's going
  to happen if you're just going to sit there. I guess, that my opposite would
  be you're not actively doing anything. Oh, I think I mentioned this too, of it
  sounds weird to say, but actively seeking serendipity is not a paradox. It's
  like, somehow you're seeking something that is not, I guess, meant to be
  seeked out. Maybe the way you're doing it is not literally like, “Oh, I’m
  trying to do this, so that this thing will happen and guaranteed to happen.”
  You're okay with the fact that it might not, if that makes sense.


  [00:06:43] BH: Yeah. Ari, one of the things I’ve been wondering, as someone
  who has had involvement with Vue Vixens, and coming into open source from your
  background, what are some of your thoughts as far as a lot of things we've
  been talking about, as far as trying to get involved? Is it intimidating? I’d
  love to hear what you think.


  [00:06:59] AC: Yeah. I’ve been largely silent, because I didn't feel I
  belonged in this conversation if I’m being completely honest, which is exactly
  how I feel about open source in general. I don't feel like I belong. I don't
  know how to get in. Yeah, that's my completely candid response.


  [00:07:15] HZ: Yeah. I guess, on the inside, you have to remind yourself what
  it's like if you're not involved in open source, like what it feels. I know
  it's definitely intimidating and I felt that way when I was getting involved
  too. It's interesting, because we try to be really open to help people get
  involved. I think maybe that's the problem of, if you be open in the sense of
  broadcasting yourself, like the whole one to many, if I say, “Hey, anyone can
  reach out to me or something,” or you say your DMs are open, stuff like that,
  that only invites a certain kind of person.


  That's where I feel being more intentional, specifically reaching out to
  people, or getting involved in certain communities is probably better. There
  are formal versions of this, like Google Summer of Code. We've done that in
  Rails Girls, Summer of Code, stuff like that. Yeah, maybe we need more of
  that, instead of this blanket like, “Hey, anyone can get involved.”


  [00:08:08] AC: I also think that certain subsets of the community have been
  traditionally unwelcome, whether explicit or implicit. Women in general, I
  think have been a huge part of that. We look at communities, like Linux and
  Linus Torvalds, and the reputation around a lot of open source communities. I
  mean, obviously, not nearly as much in various JavaScript communities. I’d
  like to think we're a little bit better than that.


  Yeah, it makes it difficult to even want to cross that barrier. I think you're
  absolutely right about outreaching communities. The thought of being
  vulnerable enough to even submit a PR is just terrifying, even though I
  understand maybe it shouldn't be, but it just feels very vulnerable.


  [00:08:56] HZ: Yeah. No, for sure. It's like, if I’m saying all this stuff
  about how it sucks, that's not very encouraging to people.


  [00:09:01] AC: That too.


  [00:09:05] HZ: That's why I have the conflict, where it's like, I want people
  to get involved, and there are definitely a lot of awesome things about it and
  I think maybe some of us have experienced that. Again, I don't want to paint a
  rosy picture, because when they do get involved, they're like, “Wait, this is
  not what I expected and this sucks.”


  [00:09:21] T: Yeah. Last year, I tried to do – was it last year? I don't
  remember. I finished, but I never signed up to get the t-shirt or whatever. I
  tried to do Hacktoberfest for the first and only time. That was my first time
  opening PRs on random open source projects. I updated the docs, which is
  traditionally not a very glamorous thing to do, I guess. Then they closed it
  and they said it didn't count, because I was obviously just trying to spam to
  get my Hacktoberfest points, even though I already had my five PRs.


  [00:09:47] AC: What?


  [00:09:49] T: Yeah. That didn't feel very good. Whoever the open source
  maintainer was. I don't remember the project. Yeah, Ari. I feel to Ari's
  point, a lot of my preferences and the tools I’ve ended up using, or my focus
  on Vue even, has been shaped primarily by my experiences with the in-person
  communities around the technologies and how much I was able to feel apart, or
  impact those communities and be heard. That’s very important.


  [00:10:14] VA: Yeah, on that note, I’m curious, this is for Ari, or I guess,
  for everyone in the group. What is the relationship between these in-person
  communities, like the meetups and open source culture? Because Ari, especially
  you and Tessa, I think do a lot of organizing of meetups, whereas Ben, I don't
  know if you do that as well, actually. I’ve not called out anyone in
  particular, but whereas Henry and I attend a lot. I’m curious what that
  relationship feels like on both ends.


  [00:10:41] AC: Tessa, do you want to answer that first?


  [00:10:42] T: Yeah. There is no more in-person meetups, so the end. I think
  there's a lot of similar struggles to what Henry said. You feel a lot of
  pressure to do right by the community, but also, you don't know what's right
  and also, you're doing it on your own time. There's no money, or glory in it.


  Actually, it's very similar. I went to this Google event a couple years ago,
  where they invited a bunch of meetup organizers and they were like, “What's
  the hard thing about starting meetups?” It was pretty much exactly what Henry
  said, where it's like, somebody finds you and they see that you have the
  passion, or the drive to do the things just for the reason that nobody else is
  doing them, and you feel it's important to get them done, and then they hook
  into you and they're like, “Do the things.” Then suddenly, you're trapped
  there. It's like that.


  [00:11:23] BH: I actually love to hear, Ari, from your perspective, of the Vue
  Vixen workshops and those things granted, I know those things aren't being run
  right now, but your experience in seeing that interaction and bringing people
  into a community.


  [00:11:35] AC: That was huge for me, honestly. Vue Vixens is the reason I’m on
  this podcast. They're the reason that I even started to feel a part of the
  community at all. That was very much because it was a very welcoming
  environment, very non-judgmental. Also, they provided the introductions into
  the greater community for me. Yeah, I would say that being very intentional
  about reaching out can make all the difference, in terms of making someone
  welcome in any part of a community, especially if you have a gateway to the
  larger community.


  Also, I have never wanted to learn React, for example, because of the culture
  I see on Twitter. Yeah, I think that how you draw people into your community
  makes a huge difference in the level of engagement and willingness to put
  effort in outside of surface effort.


  [00:12:29] T: Yeah, and butterfly effect to add on to Ari's story, a couple
  years ago when I was giving a full conference talk at VueConf, I met Ari at
  one of the events the night before. She was so excited to see my talk. I was
  so intimidated, because Ari clearly knew so much more about the topic than I
  did. It made me feel so great that somebody was excited for specifically my
  talk and my talk topic. That individual connection, it really makes a
  difference.


  [00:13:01] AC: The funny part about later in that story, as I told Tessa, she
  would probably never see me again, because I’m terrible at being friends with
  people.


  [00:13:09] T: And I never did. Well, on that note, Henry, if people want to
  connect with you, where can they find you on the Internet?


  [00:13:19] HZ: Actually, I don't even know. They don't need to follow me, but
  you can listen to the podcast, all of that, hopeinsource.com.


  [00:13:27] T: Great. We'll put that in the show notes. With that, it's time
  for us to move on to this week's picks. Ben, would you like to go first?


  [00:13:33] BH: All right. As far as my picks for this week, the first of
  which, I think a lot of us are in quarantine. I think picking up an instrument
  is a fun way to disconnect from technology. I grabbed my ukulele from my
  parents’ house recently and trying for the third time. I failed three times
  now. Maybe the third time, it will actually stick. Picking that up. As far as
  board games go, if you haven't tried Azul, that is a great one. It has a lot
  of replayability and just highly, highly recommend it.


  [00:13:59] HZ: Of course, earlier, we talked a bit about Nadia’s book, Working
  in Public. I would highly recommend it. I’ve only read, I think, the first
  chapter and already, it just changed the way I’ve thought about open source,
  because it's one thing to be involved on the Vue core team and a specific
  scope, but Nadia brings in data and has a breadth of case studies that really
  just give you an insight into different things that people have tried and
  really has opened my mind up. Highly, highly recommend it, if you haven't
  checked it out yet.


  [00:14:27] T: Yeah. Ukulele has been one of my, like, “I’ll learn it someday”
  goals as well that just never happened. Ari, how about you? Do you have any
  picks for us this week?


  [00:14:35] AC: No, because I just watch Grey's Anatomy for the entirety of my
  spare time. I guess, I could pick that.


  [00:14:42] BH: There we go.


  [00:14:42] T: Just a constant gut punch.


  [00:14:47] HZ: Oh, yikes.


  [00:14:48] VA: Yeah. I mean, if we were to talk about the things we actually
  do all the time, I would probably have some different picks than the one I’m
  going to say.


  [00:14:55] T: We got to do everything in public, right Veekas?


  [00:15:00] VA: Okay. All right. I’m tell them myself, when I get to my pick.
  My partner and I, we at the end of the day with all that's going on, we have
  gotten really into just wholesome TV shows, just stuff that feels nice. Most
  recently, we have been watching Kim’s Convenience on Netflix. All the
  characters have their problems, but they're just a great family, they take
  care of each other and they just live like good people. It's a Canadian TV
  show. Some of the cultural things are actually pretty interesting to me,
  specifically as Canadians, but also, as Koreans living in North America.


  My other pick though, which is what I do, for a few months I couldn't read a
  book to save my life. Recently, I’ve been able to read again and have my mind
  focus on it. The book I picked up, which I’ve been really loving is called
  Race After Technology it's by a professor of African American studies,
  actually at Princeton, but she talks a lot about middle of the Venn diagram
  between science and tech, and race and society. Her book, she plays with the
  term The New Jim Crow, which is a Michelle Alexander book that's I think, 10
  or 20-years-old. She plays with that and calls a new phenomenon the new Jim
  code and it's how technology is both reflecting, but also solidifying and
  reproducing existing inequities and existing biases that are in the wider
  society.


  It's really, really fascinating to read as someone in tech, as an engineer,
  but also as a person of color. Her first chapter, she talks about names, and
  my name has meant a lot to me. It's been a very strong anchor in my life, but
  also something that has caused a lot of angst and conflict as well. That book
  is really incredible. Race After Technology.


  [00:16:47] T: Yeah, that sounds really great, especially because I feel with
  those kinds of issues as well, that's another area where we hear a lot of,
  “Just stick to the code,” or, “The algorithm itself isn't inherently biased.”
  It's like, how do we deal with those issues and understand that code doesn't
  just come out of nowhere? Henry, would you like to share your picks for us
  this week?


  [00:17:07] HZ: Yeah. I have one, but actually based on Veekas’s book. A book I
  read a while back is called Tools for Conviviality. That's also a book about
  technology by Illich. The same thinking and this is a while back, but it talks
  about how there's a difference between industrialized tools, versus – even
  this distinction between apps and tools. You would say like, “Oh, you know how
  everyone's always," in Silicon Valley. We're like, “Oh, we'll have an app for
  that to fix all of our problems.” Versus a tool that people can learn how to
  use on their own, versus something that's designed where you have to do it
  within the boxes of what the designer picked. That's normally a good thing,
  but for a tool, we want self-expression from the people that use it and I
  think coding is – or anything, he mentions education, and school, and
  medicine, and coding could be another thing where it's increasingly, it's
  harder to learn how to code, even though now we have boot camps and stuff.


  The tool I work on doesn't help with that, I guess. I understand that, yeah,
  we're making it harder for people to understand, because technology is being
  used even more and more, then yeah, like what you said, there's this
  inequality there of understanding and stuff like that. Then my other pick,
  which I guess is interesting, because it's called The Mind. It's a board game.
  I played at a few conferences with some people. Guess you can't really play it
  now, because not in person.


  I don't know, even if there was a digital version, if it would make sense. We
  talked about this idea of body language before, but the whole point of the
  game is it's fun, because in short, you're supposed to play the cards one
  through a 100 in order. You deal them out. Not all of them at once, but one at
  a time. You have to play them ascending order. The catch is that you can't
  talk to each other. You can't say like, “I have a three.” You just have to
  know when to play the card. The point of the game is basically, who goes next,
  but you have to know when you're supposed to play, so you have to essentially
  look at everyone, what's their body language, are they leaning in front,
  they're probably going to go next. If they're leaning back, they're probably
  not going. Are they touching their card? They're probably about to play.


  It's fun. It sounds really dumb in a way, because you're like, “Wait, it's
  just sorting some cards.” I don't know, it's just funny things come out and
  sometimes if you allow people to talk, not like, I have this card, but just
  saying things. It's cool, where people are like, “Hey, I think I’m going to go
  next.” You're like, “No, I’m going to go next.” That kind of thing. Yeah.


  [00:19:34] BH: Yeah. I could definitely speak to when we played at VueConf.
  Actually playing with strangers is great, because you just learn about
  people's random ticks and you're like, “Are you sure?” Like, “I’m really
  sure.”


  [00:19:45] HZ: Yeah, exactly. Just funny serendipitous things happen.
  Definitely and second that thing.


  [00:19:48] T: Yeah. Henry has told me about this game so many times and I
  still never have gotten to play it. If any of our listeners also feel they're
  missing out and you also run a podcast, I just played a card, so you try to
  guess what it is and play the next card in the next episode of your podcast.


  [00:20:08] VA: It's interesting, this game is so popular, because the big O on
  that, it really seems like a really unperformant way to sort.


  [00:20:19] T: Nice. It's bringing you back to the code.


  [00:20:22] BH: Bringing you back to the code.


  [00:20:25] T: All right. Finally, it's time for my pick. I also have a game
  pick that was inspired by some of the discussion today. It's a relatively old
  game now called Journey. I feel a bit ambivalent about recommending it,
  because I have this thing about sand and any media that contains sand and
  there's vast amounts of sand in this game. You can replace it with any other
  game with limited communication tools, like Resident Evil 5, or 6, or
  something.


  It's funny, because you can encounter other players online in the game, but
  they only have three or four different sounds that they can make, or gestures
  they can make to communicate with you. You would think that that would mean
  that the things that you can say, and the kinship you feel with other players,
  who all look exactly like you and you don't know their names or anything,
  would feel very limited.


  It's surprising and weird to me almost how much more connected I feel with
  random person who I have no way of re-identifying, versus random commenter on
  GitHub. If you haven't tried that, check it out. It also happens to have won a
  ton of awards. There's that. My next pick came through Ben, or through Ben
  through a friend of Ben's, or something. It's I believe, the latest in The
  Eungdapara series, or in English we call it The Reply series. Right now, I’m
  watching Reply 1988. It's a story about a community in a small neighborhood in
  Seoul, and how they just live through their trials and tribulations together,
  and they work together as a community, and they have their own issues going on
  as well.


  There's also a lot of great old-fashioned Korean music in there, which I’ve
  always been a fan of. Watching the show with these vintage high school
  uniforms and old music reminds me of when I was in high school, I had to learn
  this song called Tsubasa-wo-Kudasai, which means please give me wings. It's a
  folk song and it's cheesy and it's all in. I remember at the time, all my
  classmates were like, “Yeah, this is really cheesy.” I was internally really
  into it, but I couldn't really appreciate it, because I felt all this external
  pressure. I wish I could go back and just be like, “I know it's cheesy, but
  I’m going to completely lean into learning that song.”


  That brings me to my final pick, which is this book called Conquer Your
  Critical Inner Voice. Incidentally, it was recommended in another book that I
  was reading, so that's how I found that. It's a series of chapters. I’ve only
  read the first one, but it's a series of chapters that explain how we
  internalize external voices and judgments and ideas of what we should do and
  what we shouldn't do, and why we're such failures as human beings, whether
  that's from guardians in childhood, or even as we continue to grow and develop
  as people. Then there's a series of exercises that you can do to learn to
  separate those thoughts from your own thoughts and try to identify how you
  truly view yourself in a fair and compassionate way.


  With that, that's all for this week's episode. Don't forget to check out
  Henry's new merch. Thanks for listening, everyone. Until next time, Enjoy the
  Vue.


  [END]
---
