---
episode-number: 40
episode-title: From Individual Contributor to Manager with David Ashe (Part 1)
date-published: 2020-11-02T12:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-40.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/39cfa92c-1d5a-4da0-9224-d7b1112da1b7.mp3
picks: []
shownotes: >-
  Our guest today is David Ashe, with guest panelist Amal Hussein.


  When it comes to taking that next step in your career, it can be tricky when
  you have to decide whether managerial duties are a good fit for you. While it
  is the standard career path for many companies, the question that stands is:
  does it make sense for everyone person to become a manager? What challenges
  does one face with that transition?


  Shownotes and links coming soon!
transcript: >+
  EPISODE 40 PART 1


  [EPISODE]


  [00:00:09] BH: Hey, everybody. Welcome to Enjoy The Vue. I’m Bean. Today on
  our panel, we have Tessa.


  [00:00:16] T: Hello.


  [00:00:17] BH: Ari.


  [00:00:18] AC: Hello.


  [00:00:18] BH: And guest panelist, Amal Hussein.


  [00:00:21] AH: Hello. I am happy to be referred to as bean as well. My name is
  Amal, formerly known as bean.


  [00:00:29] T: You're going to have to be other bean then. Bean 2.


  [00:00:32] AH: Oh, bean 2. Bean 2 works. Actually, I could be bean without the
  vowels. Be all cool web 3.0 with no vowel.


  [00:00:41] BH: Yeah, bn.io.


  [00:00:43] AH: No vowel name. Infer the vowels. All right. I’m sorry. Hello.
  Hi, everybody. It's been a long week.


  [00:00:54] BH: It has. Our special guest for this episode is David Ash. David,
  would you like to introduce yourself?1


  [00:01:01] DA: Sure. Thanks for having me. I’m a software developer for a big
  bank. My job title is man about town.


  [00:01:08] AH: Yeah. Man about town, sometimes wrangling, sometimes managing,
  sometimes both, right?


  [00:01:14] DA: Whatever they need.


  [00:01:16] BH: Yeah. Speaking of, today our topic is about the transition
  between individual contributor, or a lot of us will be referring to it as IC
  going forward, versus being in a manager role. I mean, I guess to kick it off,
  David, what are your thoughts as far as what it's like to transition from IC
  to a manager role?


  [00:01:34] DA: I have so many. I’m really excited to do this, because then I
  can come back and look at this in a year and think, “What an idiot.” Because
  I’m in the transition now. I’m sure in just a few months, I’ll learn some big
  lesson about something I’m doing quite wrong, and it'll be fun to see, which
  of the things I’ve intuited and which I’m going to have to bang my head
  against the wall to learn.


  Probably, the biggest one though is obviously, when you're an IC, you get
  things done by getting your hands on the keyboard and making it happen most of
  the time. Not being an IC, you need to trust other people to get work done.
  There's a psychological component there to trust other people to know when you
  can count on others to get it done. Also, how do you delegate work to other
  people? How many people should be on this task? When other people are making
  decisions about how it should go, should I push back, or go along with it?
  Politics. That part too, really comes up. I think, one of the great things
  about being an IC is you can dodge a lot of politics.


  [00:02:32] BH: Yeah. In your experience, Amal, what has that been like? Do you
  find that your experience has been similar, or how does it compare?


  [00:02:37] AH: Yeah. I would say, very similar to what David just said. It's a
  huge shift. I mean, I remember when I first made a transition from being an IC
  to a manager, I immediately realized my time was not my own, so that's the
  first big realization, that you set out your day thinking like, “Okay. I’m
  going to accomplish one, two, three, four, five.” Then you accomplish one,
  two, half of three, if you're lucky. Really, there's a lot of context
  switching and a lot more enabling other people to do work, less so doing
  actual work yourself.


  It was a very jarring transition for me, because it's really hard to – How do
  you measure success? How do you know you're getting stuff done, right? For me,
  a big thing was okay, my team is unblocked, people are productive, everyone
  knows what they're doing. Great. I’ve done my job. It's not always as easy as
  that. I think for me, that was the biggest challenge. When I’m an IC, I worked
  on these pull requests, I worked on this big feature, I helped do this one
  thing and I think it's not as easy to quantify the value that you deliver as a
  manager. It's much more ephemeral. A good manager is invisible in many ways,
  so.


  [00:03:51] DA: Terrible managers can be very visible.


  [00:03:53] AH: Yeah, and terrible managers are way too visible, way too
  micro-manage-y. For me, I really stopped using the word, “I’m your manager.” I
  use the words like, “I’m here to support you.” Because really, you're there to
  support your team and you're there to serve them, not the other way around. At
  least, that’s a mentality that I took. I don't know if that was the case for
  you, David. I feel very much like I’m a customer service person for my team.


  [00:04:18] DA: Yeah, I would strongly agree with that. Why doesn't everyone
  just think of it that way?


  [00:04:22] AH: Yeah, good manager. There's way more bad managers than good
  ones too, that's the other thing. There's so few good examples of managers. So
  many horrible managers, which is why we need more good people to be managers.
  A lot of the horrible managers that I’ve seen are the ones that are the best
  individual contributor gets promoted to be a manager. That's a horrible idea.
  They should shift into management, because it's not necessarily even a
  promotion sometimes.


  They should shift into management because they are good at that and they enjoy
  doing that. Don't take somebody who's good at code and immediately think like,
  okay, they're going to be a great manager. That's one of the biggest mistakes
  that companies make. We'll take the best coder and have them lead the team, in
  all aspects.


  It's a really sad situation, because people just get frustrated and they're
  not happy at their job anymore. That's the start of the bad manager.


  [00:05:13] DA: Yeah. It's funny, because traditionally, as you mentioned,
  there was nowhere to go beyond senior engineer for most companies. Naturally,
  the next place was team lead. As we've talked about, individual contributors
  versus manager are very basically different skill sets, as far as what your
  priorities are and what you're focusing on. What I’ve seen at some of the
  newer companies, like Gitlab, is they have staff positions. Instead of a
  senior front-end engineer, you're now a staff front-end engineer.


  You're still in the promoted, like elevated position from helping to lead more
  architectural decisions and having that still an IC focus with some leadership
  capacity, but not from – you have four people under you and now you have to
  manage their performance reviews and yada, yada. I’m liking the companies that
  approach to letting people choose, am I more of a people manager, or am I more
  of an individual contributor when it comes to next steps in my career? 


  What are your thoughts on this, Tessa?


  [00:06:04] T: It reminds me of the primary problem that I’ve observed with
  CSS, where so many people's first introduction is from somebody else and like
  chicken and egg, chicken and egg, hate CSS and they don't really know how to
  use it. Then that just keeps on recreating the issue over and over again. I
  feel like management is a lot like that. You just get thrust into the
  situation, where you have to do something and all the people around you aren't
  necessarily adept at it, or particularly pleased to be there either, and so it
  just keeps on perpetuating.


  To the note that Amal made about bad managers being very visible, I feel it
  also seems to be a pretty common experience that the visibility trickles down,
  so the higher ups don't know, but the lower-downs in the job hierarchy
  definitely knows. I don't know if maybe that experience is different for other
  ICs, like Ari.


  [00:06:58] AC: I also think that a bad manager can have very low visibility as
  well, because the job of the manager is to enable the team. If the manager is
  not listening to problems the team is having, they're not there to address
  them. Cuts both ways, in my opinion. Cuts both ways.


  [00:07:22] AH: You have a really pretty voice.


  [00:07:23] AC: Thank you. I’m forgetting the rest of the lyrics, but la, la,
  la, la, la, la, la. It cuts both ways. Sorry.


  [00:07:30] T: Are you telling me we have a two-way binding? This is a Vue
  podcast.


  [00:07:36] AH: I see we have a pun master here. Tessa. Well, I raise you one
  pun and no, I’m not going to – We're not going to have a pun off. Yeah. I
  mean, honestly, Ben, I’m so glad that you brought up the whole, I would say
  track, the engineering track situation that we have, because it's a situation
  and it's a hot situation, because most companies don't actually know what to
  do with their senior engineers. What you have is this weird, large band of –
  I’ve been at the company for five years and I’m kicked and I just got promoted
  to senior engineer. I’ve been at the company for 15 years and hey, I’m still
  senior engineer. How is that fair? It is not an adequate measure of that
  person's competence, or capability, or whatever and/or the amount of influence
  and scope and how big that sphere of influence should be for that person.


  For me, having those parallel tracks for managers and engineers, where you
  have staff, senior staff, principal, senior principal, architect, that senior
  architect. Your sphere of influence should grow, where you're able to be a
  technical lead that goes from managing one team's backlog and technical
  delivery to a series of team’s backlogs, and technical delivery, and roadmaps.
  Companies that have leadership tracks for engineers are for me, ones that
  recognize the need for mentorship and growth beyond just senior software
  engineer.


  I can tell you, I shifted back from being an engineering manager to a
  principal engineer and there's a whole back story behind that. Maybe we'll get
  into it later. I’m telling you, I’m not interested in working at a company
  that doesn't have those roles, because I am not a senior software engineer
  anymore. I’m never going to work at a company that doesn't have senior staff,
  or principal. It's just not happening, because that's just not a title that
  really reflects the value that I bring to an engineering organization.


  Promotions shouldn't necessarily just equal management. Management at some
  point becomes a parallel track. I’ve worked places where principal engineer
  and engineering manager were essentially at the same level, in terms of pay
  and/or sphere of influence, or whatever. They just had different
  responsibilities.


  [00:09:46] T: Yeah. I don't know if you all feel this way when you think about
  promotions and raises in the tech industry. Sometimes, I almost feel like it's
  watching a game of hungry, hungry, hippos. It's also perfect that there's four
  hippos, I guess, for bang. They're just ping-ponging around between the
  different companies to keep on growing their career, rather than nurturing
  their career at one company.


  I’d like to go back a bit to this topic of avoiding politics and then, as a
  manager, getting thrown into the politics. At least in my experience, it's
  been difficult to identify what's more different about the politics of a
  manager, because I feel in tech, there's so much discourse around just focus
  on the code. When I hear politics, I almost hear having to talk to other
  people at the company, or see people. I’m curious, what politics means as a
  manager and also, why people choose to go from being an IC to being a manager,
  or vice versa?


  [00:10:44] DA: I will talk now.


  [00:10:48] BH: Sounds great.


  [00:10:53] DA: Yeah. Well, for me, being an IC has always been – it's funny,
  you brought up hungry, hungry hippos. Because as soon as you said that, I was
  like, “Oh, that's what development was like for me. Will this work? Will this
  work? Maybe this will work.” A frenzy of trying things, particularly as I was
  newer. For me, being an IC has always been, okay, so I got that feature done.
  That's great. Oh, we built this. This product does something it didn't do
  before. That's really exciting.


  Also, the way we do software around me, not in my jobs. This is no particular
  job. This sucks. This is chaotic. We could automate a lot more and feel this
  need like, I need to go above and beyond to make this product not just better
  for my features the user sees level, but for how easy it is to maintain it and
  change it and make it better level. Even if you made me an IC and I don't
  know, I got convicted on some trumped up hacking charges, then they're like,
  you can never be a manager in a tech organization. No. They would just
  wouldn’t let me work in tech.


  I feel like some court said, you can never be a manager. I would still be
  thinking from a team level. Like, how can we make this easier? Why are our
  releases so bad? I had to stay up till 11 at night. I’m thinking of my startup
  time. I had to stay up till 11 at night dealing with a production bug. How do
  I make sure that never happens again? I think, that's why manager makes a lot
  of sense for me is because, I can't just think of things maybe because I’m
  mentally off. I can't just focus on the here and now and how to get this part
  done. It’s like, how do I get this better? How would we get more control over
  this other thing?


  [00:12:13] BH: Yeah, speaking to my own experience. Similar to Amal, I at one
  point went from an IC to a team lead. At the time, it was really for me was
  about finding ways to help. There's a metaphor being, the tide that lifts
  other ships. I like the idea of being able to take the time to learn about
  what team members wanted to work on and try to assign work, or just push them
  forward on their career directory.


  One of the things I know I found challenging as a manager, or well, a team
  lead, so it’s like, semi-manager. Nonetheless, depending on the organization
  you're in, you're going to have different abilities to affect the change you
  want to affect. Ultimately, you might just basically be the person
  communicating upper management decision, rather than actually affecting any
  change. That's what I think for me personally, that's what ultimately led me
  to stop being a manager, just because I realized for the most part, I wasn't
  able to do the things I thought were critical to my team's success and their
  happiness.


  That was one of the challenges I know that I had to face.


  [00:13:09] T: I just wanted to say, if Chris were here, he would say it's that
  the tide raises all boats, Ben. Not shifts.


  [00:13:14] BH: Okay. Got it. That’s what’s in that.


  [00:13:17] DA: Right away [inaudible 00:13:18].


  [00:13:18] AH: Han master, pedantic master. Got it. Check, check.


  [00:13:23] T: You got to be pedantic to succeed in programming, right?


  [00:13:25] DA: Well, actually.


  [00:13:26] AH: Well, yeah. Well, actually.


  [00:13:29] AC: I’m hoping some of our listeners are a little bit newer to
  tech, so they may not be as familiar with some of the distinctions we're
  making. What is the difference between an engineering manager and a tech lead,
  for example? Anyone wanting for that?


  [00:13:43] T: Yeah, that's a question.


  [00:13:44] AH: I would say, David, since we've been interrupting David. David,
  you go. I’m happy to take this as well.


  [00:13:51] DA: There's certainly no stone tablets you can pull down from the
  mountain of Facebook to define these things, or Google, or whoever the
  canonical source of all tech goodness should be. It's company by company. I
  guess, an engineering manager is more that person wouldn't code. I think at
  most organizations, that's a pretty safe bet. An engineering manager wouldn't
  be coding. A tech lead might code. Maybe not, depends on their company.


  Certainly, a tech lead is much more likely to actually have their hands on a
  keyboard and write some code. A tech lead is much more likely to be looking at
  pull requests. An engineering manager might look at very few. They might look
  at some. An engineering manager is more likely to be architecting than a tech
  lead. Although, I sure would like to architects exactly.


  [00:14:32] T: From what I’ve heard, it sounds like at a lot of places, tech
  lead is basically, you're still a developer, but also at the same time, you
  have some duties of a manager and some duties of a product manager without any
  significant raise, or other official title change or whatever. I’m curious if
  that's been people's experiences, or what thoughts are there.


  [00:14:51] DA: Well, tech is all about getting not paid for doing work, right?


  [00:14:55] AC: I guess, so my experience is a little weird in that my only
  experience so far is at a startup. Startup land is a very different game in
  terms of management. For example, we don't have anyone really in management
  that doesn't still do technical work, including the CTO. The CTO still codes
  full-time. I have to say, splitting your attention I’m not sure is the most
  efficient way to manage. I guess, has anyone else had that experience, or is
  it just me?


  [00:15:31] T: We have that at my company too. The tech leads, I think it
  probably also depends on personality. For example, one of my managers it seems
  like, they're trying to find ways to incorporate tech, doing coding into their
  management time to aid their proficiency as a manager, while the other manager
  seems like they're still learning to let go of the coding and transition into
  the non-coding parts of management. Then other places I’ve worked, there have
  been managers who are coding way more than they should be, just because it's
  their baby.


  [00:16:00] AH: Referring back to comfort, that's the thing. That actually
  happened to me when I was a new manager, my manager was like, “Listen, I
  intentionally want you to not code at work for a little bit,” because you are
  going to default to your natural comfort zones. You need to train yourself
  that you need to trust other people to do their job and you need to enable
  your team.


  It's also like, when you're a new manager, it's not your job to be the
  smartest engineer on the team anymore. From someone like me who was coming
  into a manager role from a tech lead position, it was my job to be the
  smartest on the team and be super involved in the micro and macro decisions
  technically. It's a big, big transition to say, “Okay. It's your job to enable
  people to work on career coaching, to work on road maps, to work with
  stakeholders, to work with products, to make sure people are getting the
  mentoring that they need.” Of course, to jump in with your team and – It
  depends on the company.


  I worked at NPM as an engineering manager. NPM was very hands-on engineering
  manager. I would code sometimes, but it was with my team to unblock them. It
  wasn't as part of the feature delivery cycle. If you look at a RACI matrix, if
  you all are familiar, we should link that in the show notes. It's a
  responsibility, accountability consulted informed matrix. When you're starting
  a new project, depending on how your company works, you may be creating a RACI
  matrix. I was accountable for the work, but not responsible. In the sense that
  my team is delivering work and I am eventually the accountable buck stops your
  person for the output of that work, for the delivery of that work, for when
  that work is done and how that work is done.


  I’m not responsible for getting that work done in the micro sense. I’m
  responsible for setting up the foundation and giving my team the resources and
  whatnot to get that work done, but not actually doing the work. Does that make
  sense? It's very nuanced, but I would say that that's very much the core of
  your job as an engineering manager. It's very much this Venn diagram of how
  and what and who. How is tech lead, what is product, and who is engineering
  manager. There's some overlap in all of those three areas, between how and
  what and who. The engineering manager is primarily responsible for who, if
  that makes sense. Who with some of how, some of what, but mostly who.


  [00:18:25] T: That should be the episode title.


  [00:18:28] AH: It can be. I think an earlier point that I wanted to make
  around middle management pains, which is something that Tessa brought up.
  Being a middle manager sucks, you all. It is the painful job and it is
  enormously more painful when you work for an organization that has a lot of
  chaos and churn. You work for an organization where you have to deliver news
  to your team, where you don't agree with the news you are delivering, but
  guess what? It is your job to deliver it. It is your job to not only deliver
  it, but to get your team to align to this news.


  For me, that was the ultimate moral, ethical crux that I had as an engineering
  manager. I worked at NPM as an engineering manager during a time where we were
  going through an acquisition with Microsoft, GitHub and everything was on
  fire. It was the craziest time to be at NPM. It is something that I will write
  a book about in the future and it is something that you all may be hearing
  more from me in the future on.


  I can tell you that it was extremely difficult to deliver news to my team,
  where I didn't agree with, that I was having to have to tell them. As a middle
  manager, you're in this really tough spot, where you're at times having to
  manage up and laterally and down. At the same time, you are this connection
  point between upper management and your direct reports. Depending on how upper
  management has their stuff together or not, your job is just exponentially
  harder.


  For me, what was such a shocking realization when I became a manager was when
  things were good on my team, they were freaking amazing, okay. When things
  were not good, you feel that same – it's like 5X. Let's say, I have five
  people on my team. When things are not good, you feel that 5, 6X, because it's
  not just you anymore. You're taking in how everybody's feeling. I think that
  the new emotional burden of being a first-time manager, and how do you make
  space for that new emotional baggage that you're now responsible for? That was
  such a hard challenge for me. I don't think I ever got over how difficult it
  was emotionally to be responsible for a team through good and bad. Because
  good is easy. Good is great.


  When things are not going great, or when the company's having issues, and
  there's people's livelihoods that you literally have in your hands, in some
  ways. In particular, going through startup and acquisition, where either you
  cannot legally share what you know, or you don't have answers for what's going
  to happen with your job. That's tough. It's like, I wouldn't wish that on my
  greatest enemy. I’ll tell you that.


  [00:21:03] DA: Amal, your book, can it be titled Hungry, Hungry Hippos?


  [00:21:07] AH: Yeah. I mean, I think hungry, hungry hippos is such a powerful
  analogy on so many levels, Tessa. That works so well. Yeah, I think that'll be
  the subtitle. I’m actually working on – They all know I’m working on a website
  redesign and I’m starting a blog. My blog is going to have a section for alt
  titles. Meaning that here are all the titles that I wanted to also use, but I
  had to pick one, and so maybe I’ll have an alt title section for the book and
  be like, “Here are all the titles that didn't make the cut.”


  [00:21:39] T: It's my chance to warn her that, as Ben knows, I have a very
  high commission fee on all my ideas. I thought I heard a ukulele. I’m hearing
  things in my old age.


  [00:21:53] DA: She brought up a really good point though when you're a manager
  and no longer in IC, you have to own things that aren't yours anymore. When
  you're an IC, you get to own the output and you get to be responsible for the
  things you did, but then, when you're a manager, you're responsible for things
  other people did, under you and above you. That's why you have to use
  profanity sometimes.


  [00:22:14] T: Yeah. It sounds like both sides are always looking at the other
  side. They get to own more of their work than I do. Amal's points reminded me
  of my understanding of the original definition for emotional labor, where
  regardless of how you feel, you have to present a different face to the world
  and upkeep this other secondary emotional appearance.


  Bringing it back to Ari's question. I mean, in the book, Manager's Path, they
  do recommend that engineering managers regularly make a practice of coding
  from time to time to increase empathy and help their developers get unblocked
  and stuff like that. I imagine that in a lot of startups, it's a different
  experience because they're usually more strapped for resources. For people
  like Ben and David who've had experiences in both larger companies and
  startups, I’m curious what your thoughts are there.


  [00:23:04] DA: Like on how much should a manager code? Is that the question,
  like what's the right amount?


  [00:23:08] T: Yeah, or does the context change the definition of you coding as
  a manager?


  [00:23:14] DA: Yeah. I mean, I would think, does anyone know anything about
  holacracy, because I’ve heard about it? I don't know a lot about. I’m very
  fascinated by the idea of flattening organizations, having fewer levels of
  hierarchy. I read this book by Stanley McChrystal, Team of Teams. It was
  really interesting how they turned the US army, which is super hierarchical,
  into a graph with edges talking to each other and removing connection with
  upper command, but that's a tangent.


  When you have less layers of management, there's much less of a feedback loop.
  When you have fewer people who can write code and there's such a huge demand
  for code, then yeah, I mean, a startup, it's almost inevitable that people
  will be writing more code, I would think.


  [00:23:50] T: Sorry. I’m not sure I heard you correctly. Did you say
  holocracy, like holographic, like that hollow nails YouTube person? Hello,
  it’s me.


  [00:24:00] DA: The whole with the zappos who does it? Holacracy. It's whole,
  but not with a W. There's holacracy.org. You can check it out. It's a
  decentralized management idea. It's been famously tried in some places and
  hasn't necessarily worked out, as well as some would think.


  [00:24:19] AH: Oh, is that the turn the ship around thing?


  [00:24:21] T: Oh, that book that was talked about at GDGCT?


  [00:24:24] AH: Turn the ship around.


  [00:24:25] DA: I don’t know. Maybe.


  [00:24:27] AH: Oh, my God. That's the worst idea though. They tried that at
  NPM and it led to a disaster. This is before I joined. Basically, the disaster
  was like, let's not manage people. Let everybody do their own thing. Then you
  have these silos and you have people flailing. It doesn't really work. People
  need support. People need a daily manager. They need a champion. They need a
  sponsor. They need all those things. I know it's not really going to work in a
  corporate setting anyway. This isn't like a farm share crop.


  [00:24:56] AC: Yeah. I think naturally, people will emerge as manager types.
  Only, there's not the clear lines that they're a manager, so then it just
  turns into abusive power, because no one is actually being held accountable
  for the power. Yeah. I don't think flat orgs really work. I just don't see how
  that's possible, because humans are flawed. We'll leave it at that.


  [00:25:22] AH: Yeah. The same, Ari. We're on the same page. I’m not saying
  that there needs to either also be a very strict hierarchy in the sense that I
  think, while I do believe in having levels throughout an org, because I think
  it helps promote accountability and responsibility and whatnot. There needs to
  be connections. For example, as an individual contributor, it's really great
  to have meetings every once in a while with a skip level. Skip level, meaning,
  somebody that's not your boss. That way, you bought a way –


  [00:25:49] T: It’s like your boss's boss.


  [00:25:51] AH: Yeah. Your boss's boss, or your boss’s boss’s sibling, or
  whatever. Whatever. Somewhere in the org chart, they're cousins, but they're
  not your immediate ones. The point is that skip levels give you a way to voice
  your concerns and your feedback and get visibility. It's very important. Yeah,
  your boss's cousin, exactly. Bossin. Bossin is what we're calling you’re your
  bossin or something. Your boss's boss's cousin, I think. Anyways, so skip
  levels are important. I think it's important to get visibility throughout your
  org. What is that? What is that noise?


  [00:26:25] BH: Sorry. It's on my background.


  [00:26:28] T: Ben, you're very musical today. Beans are the musical fruit.


  [00:26:35] AH: I was like, it sounded some bedtime children's story. I was
  like, “What is that?” Anyways. Yeah, I’m going to end my rant. I’m just
  saying, it's important to get outside your bubble if you're an individual
  contributor. It's important for managers especially, to get outside their
  bubble and make sure that they have a relationship with folks on the executive
  team, or whatever level is above them. Because, ultimately, it's about having
  communication channels throughout an organization.


  Because ultimately, if you think about a manager's job, it's really
  communication more than anything. When you're super high up at the top levels
  of executive teams, what happens is people don't tell them the truth anymore.
  Because everybody's afraid they're going to get fired. The biggest thing is
  how do we get insight into what's actually going on? How do we get insight
  into the actual processes that are close to the metal? Because you get really
  far removed. With every level you go up, I mean, that is effort that you need
  to put towards communication to find out what's actually going on, because
  silos are real and that's the trade-off with levels. You just have siloing.
  You drop packets between the different levels.


  [00:27:42] T: Yeah, it's an interesting contrast to the last episode we
  recorded, which is about open source. There, the higher you get, the more
  honest people get, or the more you hear about what they're unhappy about.
  Although, I don't know if that's the case for stuff that deals with open
  source, but it is a company like NPM.


  This holacracy thing reminds me of that popular business anecdote about some
  gaming studio, where there's no hierarchy and no structure and no plan. To
  Ari's point, it seems like it's successful only in that it apparently caters
  to a very small subset of the population. As well, I’m not sure how confident
  I am in this idea that we don't have hierarchy, because from what I’ve seen,
  it seems more like people like this idea of we're all equal and everybody has
  a say, but the way it plays out is there still is a hierarchy. It's just now,
  it's not written down, so it's less accessible to people and also, there's
  less safety and accountability there.


  [00:28:41] BH: Yeah, the checks and balance are critical.


  [00:28:43] DA: What's compelling about holacracy, I think, is when you take it
  in the context of gigantic global organizations, like the US army or
  something, or major corporations where there’s twenty levels between the CEO
  and people on the ground. There's a lot of problems that come from the game of
  telephone as signals go through those levels organization. I think I totally
  agree with you guys. The concern is if there is no specific structure, or
  there's too little structure, then there becomes a bootleg structure that
  hides potentially nasty stuff.


  I think, holacracy might have failed when it fails, because it goes too far in
  ripping down structure. I think it's about seeing the strengths of
  hierarchies, but also their weaknesses. Having the right parts, paying the
  cost of the right parts, but then, making sure you never have more levels than
  you actually need. That would be my idealistic communist defense. It works in
  theory. Don't you understand? Holacracy will save us.


  [00:29:43] BH: To Ari's question earlier, in my experience, when it comes to
  startups that both – so I’ve worked at both an R&D division, where there was
  no customer fit, so we had no market, all the way up to smaller startups that
  are actively figuring out their market fit and growing. This has been brought
  up a couple times, but that transition for founders to go from the person who
  created 90% of the code base to becoming the chief executive officer is
  something that I’ve noticed that founders often have trouble transitioning
  between. Because it is something you basically poured your heart and soul
  into, and so they want either oversight over every single PR or whatnot. I’ve
  seen different levels of this.


  I think, as far as how that reflects on what we can take away, I think as
  developers is when we're looking at our own career paths being intentional
  about where it is we want to be, is your goal to be a chief technical officer?
  Or are you actually much happier just being able to own a part of the code and
  just hammer away, right? We've seen founders, they choose to not go the chief
  executive officer route and they just stay as an individual contributor and
  let someone else handle those big stakeholder meetings and those things.


  I think when it comes to us and our own careers, it's important not to just
  take manager positions for the sake of advancing, because as we've talked
  about and Amal and David has said, more companies are starting to recognize
  that the engineering path needs to diverge. I think it's important to look for
  companies that can support that, if you don't have that at your company and
  knowing that.


  To David's point, we can always have the mentality of wanting to lift your
  team and helping your team be better, but that doesn't mean you have to be a
  manager. You can still do that as a contributor. That's my two cents on that.


  [END OF EPISODE]


  [00:31:20] BH: That's all for this episode. Tune in next week as we talk about
  managers’ roles and retention and career growth within a company. Thanks for
  listening. Until next week, enjoy the Vue. 


  [END]EPISODE 40 PART 1


  [EPISODE]


  [00:00:09] BH: Hey, everybody. Welcome to Enjoy The Vue. I’m Bean. Today on
  our panel, we have Tessa.


  [00:00:16] T: Hello.


  [00:00:17] BH: Ari.


  [00:00:18] AC: Hello.


  [00:00:18] BH: And guest panelist, Amal Hussein.


  [00:00:21] AH: Hello. I am happy to be referred to as bean as well. My name is
  Amal, formerly known as bean.


  [00:00:29] T: You're going to have to be other bean then. Bean 2.


  [00:00:32] AH: Oh, bean 2. Bean 2 works. Actually, I could be bean without the
  vowels. Be all cool web 3.0 with no vowel.


  [00:00:41] BH: Yeah, bn.io.


  [00:00:43] AH: No vowel name. Infer the vowels. All right. I’m sorry. Hello.
  Hi, everybody. It's been a long week.


  [00:00:54] BH: It has. Our special guest for this episode is David Ash. David,
  would you like to introduce yourself?1


  [00:01:01] DA: Sure. Thanks for having me. I’m a software developer for a big
  bank. My job title is man about town.


  [00:01:08] AH: Yeah. Man about town, sometimes wrangling, sometimes managing,
  sometimes both, right?


  [00:01:14] DA: Whatever they need.


  [00:01:16] BH: Yeah. Speaking of, today our topic is about the transition
  between individual contributor, or a lot of us will be referring to it as IC
  going forward, versus being in a manager role. I mean, I guess to kick it off,
  David, what are your thoughts as far as what it's like to transition from IC
  to a manager role?


  [00:01:34] DA: I have so many. I’m really excited to do this, because then I
  can come back and look at this in a year and think, “What an idiot.” Because
  I’m in the transition now. I’m sure in just a few months, I’ll learn some big
  lesson about something I’m doing quite wrong, and it'll be fun to see, which
  of the things I’ve intuited and which I’m going to have to bang my head
  against the wall to learn.


  Probably, the biggest one though is obviously, when you're an IC, you get
  things done by getting your hands on the keyboard and making it happen most of
  the time. Not being an IC, you need to trust other people to get work done.
  There's a psychological component there to trust other people to know when you
  can count on others to get it done. Also, how do you delegate work to other
  people? How many people should be on this task? When other people are making
  decisions about how it should go, should I push back, or go along with it?
  Politics. That part too, really comes up. I think, one of the great things
  about being an IC is you can dodge a lot of politics.


  [00:02:32] BH: Yeah. In your experience, Amal, what has that been like? Do you
  find that your experience has been similar, or how does it compare?


  [00:02:37] AH: Yeah. I would say, very similar to what David just said. It's a
  huge shift. I mean, I remember when I first made a transition from being an IC
  to a manager, I immediately realized my time was not my own, so that's the
  first big realization, that you set out your day thinking like, “Okay. I’m
  going to accomplish one, two, three, four, five.” Then you accomplish one,
  two, half of three, if you're lucky. Really, there's a lot of context
  switching and a lot more enabling other people to do work, less so doing
  actual work yourself.


  It was a very jarring transition for me, because it's really hard to – How do
  you measure success? How do you know you're getting stuff done, right? For me,
  a big thing was okay, my team is unblocked, people are productive, everyone
  knows what they're doing. Great. I’ve done my job. It's not always as easy as
  that. I think for me, that was the biggest challenge. When I’m an IC, I worked
  on these pull requests, I worked on this big feature, I helped do this one
  thing and I think it's not as easy to quantify the value that you deliver as a
  manager. It's much more ephemeral. A good manager is invisible in many ways,
  so.


  [00:03:51] DA: Terrible managers can be very visible.


  [00:03:53] AH: Yeah, and terrible managers are way too visible, way too
  micro-manage-y. For me, I really stopped using the word, “I’m your manager.” I
  use the words like, “I’m here to support you.” Because really, you're there to
  support your team and you're there to serve them, not the other way around. At
  least, that’s a mentality that I took. I don't know if that was the case for
  you, David. I feel very much like I’m a customer service person for my team.


  [00:04:18] DA: Yeah, I would strongly agree with that. Why doesn't everyone
  just think of it that way?


  [00:04:22] AH: Yeah, good manager. There's way more bad managers than good
  ones too, that's the other thing. There's so few good examples of managers. So
  many horrible managers, which is why we need more good people to be managers.
  A lot of the horrible managers that I’ve seen are the ones that are the best
  individual contributor gets promoted to be a manager. That's a horrible idea.
  They should shift into management, because it's not necessarily even a
  promotion sometimes.


  They should shift into management because they are good at that and they enjoy
  doing that. Don't take somebody who's good at code and immediately think like,
  okay, they're going to be a great manager. That's one of the biggest mistakes
  that companies make. We'll take the best coder and have them lead the team, in
  all aspects.


  It's a really sad situation, because people just get frustrated and they're
  not happy at their job anymore. That's the start of the bad manager.


  [00:05:13] DA: Yeah. It's funny, because traditionally, as you mentioned,
  there was nowhere to go beyond senior engineer for most companies. Naturally,
  the next place was team lead. As we've talked about, individual contributors
  versus manager are very basically different skill sets, as far as what your
  priorities are and what you're focusing on. What I’ve seen at some of the
  newer companies, like Gitlab, is they have staff positions. Instead of a
  senior front-end engineer, you're now a staff front-end engineer.


  You're still in the promoted, like elevated position from helping to lead more
  architectural decisions and having that still an IC focus with some leadership
  capacity, but not from – you have four people under you and now you have to
  manage their performance reviews and yada, yada. I’m liking the companies that
  approach to letting people choose, am I more of a people manager, or am I more
  of an individual contributor when it comes to next steps in my career? 


  What are your thoughts on this, Tessa?


  [00:06:04] T: It reminds me of the primary problem that I’ve observed with
  CSS, where so many people's first introduction is from somebody else and like
  chicken and egg, chicken and egg, hate CSS and they don't really know how to
  use it. Then that just keeps on recreating the issue over and over again. I
  feel like management is a lot like that. You just get thrust into the
  situation, where you have to do something and all the people around you aren't
  necessarily adept at it, or particularly pleased to be there either, and so it
  just keeps on perpetuating.


  To the note that Amal made about bad managers being very visible, I feel it
  also seems to be a pretty common experience that the visibility trickles down,
  so the higher ups don't know, but the lower-downs in the job hierarchy
  definitely knows. I don't know if maybe that experience is different for other
  ICs, like Ari.


  [00:06:58] AC: I also think that a bad manager can have very low visibility as
  well, because the job of the manager is to enable the team. If the manager is
  not listening to problems the team is having, they're not there to address
  them. Cuts both ways, in my opinion. Cuts both ways.


  [00:07:22] AH: You have a really pretty voice.


  [00:07:23] AC: Thank you. I’m forgetting the rest of the lyrics, but la, la,
  la, la, la, la, la. It cuts both ways. Sorry.


  [00:07:30] T: Are you telling me we have a two-way binding? This is a Vue
  podcast.


  [00:07:36] AH: I see we have a pun master here. Tessa. Well, I raise you one
  pun and no, I’m not going to – We're not going to have a pun off. Yeah. I
  mean, honestly, Ben, I’m so glad that you brought up the whole, I would say
  track, the engineering track situation that we have, because it's a situation
  and it's a hot situation, because most companies don't actually know what to
  do with their senior engineers. What you have is this weird, large band of –
  I’ve been at the company for five years and I’m kicked and I just got promoted
  to senior engineer. I’ve been at the company for 15 years and hey, I’m still
  senior engineer. How is that fair? It is not an adequate measure of that
  person's competence, or capability, or whatever and/or the amount of influence
  and scope and how big that sphere of influence should be for that person.


  For me, having those parallel tracks for managers and engineers, where you
  have staff, senior staff, principal, senior principal, architect, that senior
  architect. Your sphere of influence should grow, where you're able to be a
  technical lead that goes from managing one team's backlog and technical
  delivery to a series of team’s backlogs, and technical delivery, and roadmaps.
  Companies that have leadership tracks for engineers are for me, ones that
  recognize the need for mentorship and growth beyond just senior software
  engineer.


  I can tell you, I shifted back from being an engineering manager to a
  principal engineer and there's a whole back story behind that. Maybe we'll get
  into it later. I’m telling you, I’m not interested in working at a company
  that doesn't have those roles, because I am not a senior software engineer
  anymore. I’m never going to work at a company that doesn't have senior staff,
  or principal. It's just not happening, because that's just not a title that
  really reflects the value that I bring to an engineering organization.


  Promotions shouldn't necessarily just equal management. Management at some
  point becomes a parallel track. I’ve worked places where principal engineer
  and engineering manager were essentially at the same level, in terms of pay
  and/or sphere of influence, or whatever. They just had different
  responsibilities.


  [00:09:46] T: Yeah. I don't know if you all feel this way when you think about
  promotions and raises in the tech industry. Sometimes, I almost feel like it's
  watching a game of hungry, hungry, hippos. It's also perfect that there's four
  hippos, I guess, for bang. They're just ping-ponging around between the
  different companies to keep on growing their career, rather than nurturing
  their career at one company.


  I’d like to go back a bit to this topic of avoiding politics and then, as a
  manager, getting thrown into the politics. At least in my experience, it's
  been difficult to identify what's more different about the politics of a
  manager, because I feel in tech, there's so much discourse around just focus
  on the code. When I hear politics, I almost hear having to talk to other
  people at the company, or see people. I’m curious, what politics means as a
  manager and also, why people choose to go from being an IC to being a manager,
  or vice versa?


  [00:10:44] DA: I will talk now.


  [00:10:48] BH: Sounds great.


  [00:10:53] DA: Yeah. Well, for me, being an IC has always been – it's funny,
  you brought up hungry, hungry hippos. Because as soon as you said that, I was
  like, “Oh, that's what development was like for me. Will this work? Will this
  work? Maybe this will work.” A frenzy of trying things, particularly as I was
  newer. For me, being an IC has always been, okay, so I got that feature done.
  That's great. Oh, we built this. This product does something it didn't do
  before. That's really exciting.


  Also, the way we do software around me, not in my jobs. This is no particular
  job. This sucks. This is chaotic. We could automate a lot more and feel this
  need like, I need to go above and beyond to make this product not just better
  for my features the user sees level, but for how easy it is to maintain it and
  change it and make it better level. Even if you made me an IC and I don't
  know, I got convicted on some trumped up hacking charges, then they're like,
  you can never be a manager in a tech organization. No. They would just
  wouldn’t let me work in tech.


  I feel like some court said, you can never be a manager. I would still be
  thinking from a team level. Like, how can we make this easier? Why are our
  releases so bad? I had to stay up till 11 at night. I’m thinking of my startup
  time. I had to stay up till 11 at night dealing with a production bug. How do
  I make sure that never happens again? I think, that's why manager makes a lot
  of sense for me is because, I can't just think of things maybe because I’m
  mentally off. I can't just focus on the here and now and how to get this part
  done. It’s like, how do I get this better? How would we get more control over
  this other thing?


  [00:12:13] BH: Yeah, speaking to my own experience. Similar to Amal, I at one
  point went from an IC to a team lead. At the time, it was really for me was
  about finding ways to help. There's a metaphor being, the tide that lifts
  other ships. I like the idea of being able to take the time to learn about
  what team members wanted to work on and try to assign work, or just push them
  forward on their career directory.


  One of the things I know I found challenging as a manager, or well, a team
  lead, so it’s like, semi-manager. Nonetheless, depending on the organization
  you're in, you're going to have different abilities to affect the change you
  want to affect. Ultimately, you might just basically be the person
  communicating upper management decision, rather than actually affecting any
  change. That's what I think for me personally, that's what ultimately led me
  to stop being a manager, just because I realized for the most part, I wasn't
  able to do the things I thought were critical to my team's success and their
  happiness.


  That was one of the challenges I know that I had to face.


  [00:13:09] T: I just wanted to say, if Chris were here, he would say it's that
  the tide raises all boats, Ben. Not shifts.


  [00:13:14] BH: Okay. Got it. That’s what’s in that.


  [00:13:17] DA: Right away [inaudible 00:13:18].


  [00:13:18] AH: Han master, pedantic master. Got it. Check, check.


  [00:13:23] T: You got to be pedantic to succeed in programming, right?


  [00:13:25] DA: Well, actually.


  [00:13:26] AH: Well, yeah. Well, actually.


  [00:13:29] AC: I’m hoping some of our listeners are a little bit newer to
  tech, so they may not be as familiar with some of the distinctions we're
  making. What is the difference between an engineering manager and a tech lead,
  for example? Anyone wanting for that?


  [00:13:43] T: Yeah, that's a question.


  [00:13:44] AH: I would say, David, since we've been interrupting David. David,
  you go. I’m happy to take this as well.


  [00:13:51] DA: There's certainly no stone tablets you can pull down from the
  mountain of Facebook to define these things, or Google, or whoever the
  canonical source of all tech goodness should be. It's company by company. I
  guess, an engineering manager is more that person wouldn't code. I think at
  most organizations, that's a pretty safe bet. An engineering manager wouldn't
  be coding. A tech lead might code. Maybe not, depends on their company.


  Certainly, a tech lead is much more likely to actually have their hands on a
  keyboard and write some code. A tech lead is much more likely to be looking at
  pull requests. An engineering manager might look at very few. They might look
  at some. An engineering manager is more likely to be architecting than a tech
  lead. Although, I sure would like to architects exactly.


  [00:14:32] T: From what I’ve heard, it sounds like at a lot of places, tech
  lead is basically, you're still a developer, but also at the same time, you
  have some duties of a manager and some duties of a product manager without any
  significant raise, or other official title change or whatever. I’m curious if
  that's been people's experiences, or what thoughts are there.


  [00:14:51] DA: Well, tech is all about getting not paid for doing work, right?


  [00:14:55] AC: I guess, so my experience is a little weird in that my only
  experience so far is at a startup. Startup land is a very different game in
  terms of management. For example, we don't have anyone really in management
  that doesn't still do technical work, including the CTO. The CTO still codes
  full-time. I have to say, splitting your attention I’m not sure is the most
  efficient way to manage. I guess, has anyone else had that experience, or is
  it just me?


  [00:15:31] T: We have that at my company too. The tech leads, I think it
  probably also depends on personality. For example, one of my managers it seems
  like, they're trying to find ways to incorporate tech, doing coding into their
  management time to aid their proficiency as a manager, while the other manager
  seems like they're still learning to let go of the coding and transition into
  the non-coding parts of management. Then other places I’ve worked, there have
  been managers who are coding way more than they should be, just because it's
  their baby.


  [00:16:00] AH: Referring back to comfort, that's the thing. That actually
  happened to me when I was a new manager, my manager was like, “Listen, I
  intentionally want you to not code at work for a little bit,” because you are
  going to default to your natural comfort zones. You need to train yourself
  that you need to trust other people to do their job and you need to enable
  your team.


  It's also like, when you're a new manager, it's not your job to be the
  smartest engineer on the team anymore. From someone like me who was coming
  into a manager role from a tech lead position, it was my job to be the
  smartest on the team and be super involved in the micro and macro decisions
  technically. It's a big, big transition to say, “Okay. It's your job to enable
  people to work on career coaching, to work on road maps, to work with
  stakeholders, to work with products, to make sure people are getting the
  mentoring that they need.” Of course, to jump in with your team and – It
  depends on the company.


  I worked at NPM as an engineering manager. NPM was very hands-on engineering
  manager. I would code sometimes, but it was with my team to unblock them. It
  wasn't as part of the feature delivery cycle. If you look at a RACI matrix, if
  you all are familiar, we should link that in the show notes. It's a
  responsibility, accountability consulted informed matrix. When you're starting
  a new project, depending on how your company works, you may be creating a RACI
  matrix. I was accountable for the work, but not responsible. In the sense that
  my team is delivering work and I am eventually the accountable buck stops your
  person for the output of that work, for the delivery of that work, for when
  that work is done and how that work is done.


  I’m not responsible for getting that work done in the micro sense. I’m
  responsible for setting up the foundation and giving my team the resources and
  whatnot to get that work done, but not actually doing the work. Does that make
  sense? It's very nuanced, but I would say that that's very much the core of
  your job as an engineering manager. It's very much this Venn diagram of how
  and what and who. How is tech lead, what is product, and who is engineering
  manager. There's some overlap in all of those three areas, between how and
  what and who. The engineering manager is primarily responsible for who, if
  that makes sense. Who with some of how, some of what, but mostly who.


  [00:18:25] T: That should be the episode title.


  [00:18:28] AH: It can be. I think an earlier point that I wanted to make
  around middle management pains, which is something that Tessa brought up.
  Being a middle manager sucks, you all. It is the painful job and it is
  enormously more painful when you work for an organization that has a lot of
  chaos and churn. You work for an organization where you have to deliver news
  to your team, where you don't agree with the news you are delivering, but
  guess what? It is your job to deliver it. It is your job to not only deliver
  it, but to get your team to align to this news.


  For me, that was the ultimate moral, ethical crux that I had as an engineering
  manager. I worked at NPM as an engineering manager during a time where we were
  going through an acquisition with Microsoft, GitHub and everything was on
  fire. It was the craziest time to be at NPM. It is something that I will write
  a book about in the future and it is something that you all may be hearing
  more from me in the future on.


  I can tell you that it was extremely difficult to deliver news to my team,
  where I didn't agree with, that I was having to have to tell them. As a middle
  manager, you're in this really tough spot, where you're at times having to
  manage up and laterally and down. At the same time, you are this connection
  point between upper management and your direct reports. Depending on how upper
  management has their stuff together or not, your job is just exponentially
  harder.


  For me, what was such a shocking realization when I became a manager was when
  things were good on my team, they were freaking amazing, okay. When things
  were not good, you feel that same – it's like 5X. Let's say, I have five
  people on my team. When things are not good, you feel that 5, 6X, because it's
  not just you anymore. You're taking in how everybody's feeling. I think that
  the new emotional burden of being a first-time manager, and how do you make
  space for that new emotional baggage that you're now responsible for? That was
  such a hard challenge for me. I don't think I ever got over how difficult it
  was emotionally to be responsible for a team through good and bad. Because
  good is easy. Good is great.


  When things are not going great, or when the company's having issues, and
  there's people's livelihoods that you literally have in your hands, in some
  ways. In particular, going through startup and acquisition, where either you
  cannot legally share what you know, or you don't have answers for what's going
  to happen with your job. That's tough. It's like, I wouldn't wish that on my
  greatest enemy. I’ll tell you that.


  [00:21:03] DA: Amal, your book, can it be titled Hungry, Hungry Hippos?


  [00:21:07] AH: Yeah. I mean, I think hungry, hungry hippos is such a powerful
  analogy on so many levels, Tessa. That works so well. Yeah, I think that'll be
  the subtitle. I’m actually working on – They all know I’m working on a website
  redesign and I’m starting a blog. My blog is going to have a section for alt
  titles. Meaning that here are all the titles that I wanted to also use, but I
  had to pick one, and so maybe I’ll have an alt title section for the book and
  be like, “Here are all the titles that didn't make the cut.”


  [00:21:39] T: It's my chance to warn her that, as Ben knows, I have a very
  high commission fee on all my ideas. I thought I heard a ukulele. I’m hearing
  things in my old age.


  [00:21:53] DA: She brought up a really good point though when you're a manager
  and no longer in IC, you have to own things that aren't yours anymore. When
  you're an IC, you get to own the output and you get to be responsible for the
  things you did, but then, when you're a manager, you're responsible for things
  other people did, under you and above you. That's why you have to use
  profanity sometimes.


  [00:22:14] T: Yeah. It sounds like both sides are always looking at the other
  side. They get to own more of their work than I do. Amal's points reminded me
  of my understanding of the original definition for emotional labor, where
  regardless of how you feel, you have to present a different face to the world
  and upkeep this other secondary emotional appearance.


  Bringing it back to Ari's question. I mean, in the book, Manager's Path, they
  do recommend that engineering managers regularly make a practice of coding
  from time to time to increase empathy and help their developers get unblocked
  and stuff like that. I imagine that in a lot of startups, it's a different
  experience because they're usually more strapped for resources. For people
  like Ben and David who've had experiences in both larger companies and
  startups, I’m curious what your thoughts are there.


  [00:23:04] DA: Like on how much should a manager code? Is that the question,
  like what's the right amount?


  [00:23:08] T: Yeah, or does the context change the definition of you coding as
  a manager?


  [00:23:14] DA: Yeah. I mean, I would think, does anyone know anything about
  holacracy, because I’ve heard about it? I don't know a lot about. I’m very
  fascinated by the idea of flattening organizations, having fewer levels of
  hierarchy. I read this book by Stanley McChrystal, Team of Teams. It was
  really interesting how they turned the US army, which is super hierarchical,
  into a graph with edges talking to each other and removing connection with
  upper command, but that's a tangent.


  When you have less layers of management, there's much less of a feedback loop.
  When you have fewer people who can write code and there's such a huge demand
  for code, then yeah, I mean, a startup, it's almost inevitable that people
  will be writing more code, I would think.


  [00:23:50] T: Sorry. I’m not sure I heard you correctly. Did you say
  holocracy, like holographic, like that hollow nails YouTube person? Hello,
  it’s me.


  [00:24:00] DA: The whole with the zappos who does it? Holacracy. It's whole,
  but not with a W. There's holacracy.org. You can check it out. It's a
  decentralized management idea. It's been famously tried in some places and
  hasn't necessarily worked out, as well as some would think.


  [00:24:19] AH: Oh, is that the turn the ship around thing?


  [00:24:21] T: Oh, that book that was talked about at GDGCT?


  [00:24:24] AH: Turn the ship around.


  [00:24:25] DA: I don’t know. Maybe.


  [00:24:27] AH: Oh, my God. That's the worst idea though. They tried that at
  NPM and it led to a disaster. This is before I joined. Basically, the disaster
  was like, let's not manage people. Let everybody do their own thing. Then you
  have these silos and you have people flailing. It doesn't really work. People
  need support. People need a daily manager. They need a champion. They need a
  sponsor. They need all those things. I know it's not really going to work in a
  corporate setting anyway. This isn't like a farm share crop.


  [00:24:56] AC: Yeah. I think naturally, people will emerge as manager types.
  Only, there's not the clear lines that they're a manager, so then it just
  turns into abusive power, because no one is actually being held accountable
  for the power. Yeah. I don't think flat orgs really work. I just don't see how
  that's possible, because humans are flawed. We'll leave it at that.


  [00:25:22] AH: Yeah. The same, Ari. We're on the same page. I’m not saying
  that there needs to either also be a very strict hierarchy in the sense that I
  think, while I do believe in having levels throughout an org, because I think
  it helps promote accountability and responsibility and whatnot. There needs to
  be connections. For example, as an individual contributor, it's really great
  to have meetings every once in a while with a skip level. Skip level, meaning,
  somebody that's not your boss. That way, you bought a way –


  [00:25:49] T: It’s like your boss's boss.


  [00:25:51] AH: Yeah. Your boss's boss, or your boss’s boss’s sibling, or
  whatever. Whatever. Somewhere in the org chart, they're cousins, but they're
  not your immediate ones. The point is that skip levels give you a way to voice
  your concerns and your feedback and get visibility. It's very important. Yeah,
  your boss's cousin, exactly. Bossin. Bossin is what we're calling you’re your
  bossin or something. Your boss's boss's cousin, I think. Anyways, so skip
  levels are important. I think it's important to get visibility throughout your
  org. What is that? What is that noise?


  [00:26:25] BH: Sorry. It's on my background.


  [00:26:28] T: Ben, you're very musical today. Beans are the musical fruit.


  [00:26:35] AH: I was like, it sounded some bedtime children's story. I was
  like, “What is that?” Anyways. Yeah, I’m going to end my rant. I’m just
  saying, it's important to get outside your bubble if you're an individual
  contributor. It's important for managers especially, to get outside their
  bubble and make sure that they have a relationship with folks on the executive
  team, or whatever level is above them. Because, ultimately, it's about having
  communication channels throughout an organization.


  Because ultimately, if you think about a manager's job, it's really
  communication more than anything. When you're super high up at the top levels
  of executive teams, what happens is people don't tell them the truth anymore.
  Because everybody's afraid they're going to get fired. The biggest thing is
  how do we get insight into what's actually going on? How do we get insight
  into the actual processes that are close to the metal? Because you get really
  far removed. With every level you go up, I mean, that is effort that you need
  to put towards communication to find out what's actually going on, because
  silos are real and that's the trade-off with levels. You just have siloing.
  You drop packets between the different levels.


  [00:27:42] T: Yeah, it's an interesting contrast to the last episode we
  recorded, which is about open source. There, the higher you get, the more
  honest people get, or the more you hear about what they're unhappy about.
  Although, I don't know if that's the case for stuff that deals with open
  source, but it is a company like NPM.


  This holacracy thing reminds me of that popular business anecdote about some
  gaming studio, where there's no hierarchy and no structure and no plan. To
  Ari's point, it seems like it's successful only in that it apparently caters
  to a very small subset of the population. As well, I’m not sure how confident
  I am in this idea that we don't have hierarchy, because from what I’ve seen,
  it seems more like people like this idea of we're all equal and everybody has
  a say, but the way it plays out is there still is a hierarchy. It's just now,
  it's not written down, so it's less accessible to people and also, there's
  less safety and accountability there.


  [00:28:41] BH: Yeah, the checks and balance are critical.


  [00:28:43] DA: What's compelling about holacracy, I think, is when you take it
  in the context of gigantic global organizations, like the US army or
  something, or major corporations where there’s twenty levels between the CEO
  and people on the ground. There's a lot of problems that come from the game of
  telephone as signals go through those levels organization. I think I totally
  agree with you guys. The concern is if there is no specific structure, or
  there's too little structure, then there becomes a bootleg structure that
  hides potentially nasty stuff.


  I think, holacracy might have failed when it fails, because it goes too far in
  ripping down structure. I think it's about seeing the strengths of
  hierarchies, but also their weaknesses. Having the right parts, paying the
  cost of the right parts, but then, making sure you never have more levels than
  you actually need. That would be my idealistic communist defense. It works in
  theory. Don't you understand? Holacracy will save us.


  [00:29:43] BH: To Ari's question earlier, in my experience, when it comes to
  startups that both – so I’ve worked at both an R&D division, where there was
  no customer fit, so we had no market, all the way up to smaller startups that
  are actively figuring out their market fit and growing. This has been brought
  up a couple times, but that transition for founders to go from the person who
  created 90% of the code base to becoming the chief executive officer is
  something that I’ve noticed that founders often have trouble transitioning
  between. Because it is something you basically poured your heart and soul
  into, and so they want either oversight over every single PR or whatnot. I’ve
  seen different levels of this.


  I think, as far as how that reflects on what we can take away, I think as
  developers is when we're looking at our own career paths being intentional
  about where it is we want to be, is your goal to be a chief technical officer?
  Or are you actually much happier just being able to own a part of the code and
  just hammer away, right? We've seen founders, they choose to not go the chief
  executive officer route and they just stay as an individual contributor and
  let someone else handle those big stakeholder meetings and those things.


  I think when it comes to us and our own careers, it's important not to just
  take manager positions for the sake of advancing, because as we've talked
  about and Amal and David has said, more companies are starting to recognize
  that the engineering path needs to diverge. I think it's important to look for
  companies that can support that, if you don't have that at your company and
  knowing that.


  To David's point, we can always have the mentality of wanting to lift your
  team and helping your team be better, but that doesn't mean you have to be a
  manager. You can still do that as a contributor. That's my two cents on that.


  [END OF EPISODE]


  [00:31:20] BH: That's all for this episode. Tune in next week as we talk about
  managers’ roles and retention and career growth within a company. Thanks for
  listening. Until next week, enjoy the Vue. 


  [END]
---
