---
episode-number: 42
episode-title: What Can Games Teach Us About UI Design? With Felix Park (Part 1)
date-published: 2020-11-16T12:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-42.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/4233e339-9b1c-4446-a1c9-3859e95583bb.mp3
shownotes: >-
  **Overview:**


  Although web and game development are two different processes in their own
  right, it’s interesting to note that web development has influenced the gaming
  industry and vice versa. Video games look and behave more like well-structured
  websites, while websites and apps strive to look and behave like video games.
  Due to this trend, this episode focuses on what games can teach us bout UI or
  user interface design. Today’s guest is game developer, Felix Park, who
  explains what he does as a game designer, how game design parallels with user
  experience and user interface design, and how he strives to create an optimal
  experience by guiding the player to make certain decisions. He also talks
  about how he creates certain prompts, what affordances are and how they are
  applicable in game design, and how he establishes a design language throughout
  a game. Tune in today!



  **Key Points From This Episode:**

  - Felix introduces himself and what he does as a game designer.

  - Felix explains what it means to be a game designer, using a door in a game
  as a metaphor,

  - Game development and how it parallels with user experience or user interface
  design.

  - How Felix strives towards guiding people through an optimal and less
  frustrating experience.

  - Felix explains what a AAA game is – they are the big-budget, summer
  blockbusters of games.

  - Hear more about what led Felix to game design.

  - Going into gaming, Felix had some programming knowledge from his HTML coding
  hobby.

  - How Felix leads a user to make certain decisions, from lighting and UI to
  manipulating time.

  - Felix defines affordances as what’s possible with an object as expressed
  through its design.

  - Felix outlines some examples of how game designers include prompts to guide
  players.

  - Restrictions and repetitions are introduced throughout a game to establish a
  design language and what the affordances are for the user.

  - Felix explains how he balances high intensity difficulty with ease of play
  through play testing.


  **Tweetables:**

  - “We have to constantly strive to make sure that people are being guided
  towards an optimal, not so frustrating experience. Unless we do want to
  frustrate them, in which case that's an entirely different design challenge.
  The goal is to make sure that anybody can play our games with the minimum
  amount of direct interference or touch on that”. — @uhfelix [0:05:07]


  - “Games are this thing you just make up in [their] entirety. Down to the very
  weird, basic, physical elements, you can use all of them to influence people.”
  — @uhfelix [0:14:54]


  - “Affordance is this concept of how does the design communicate its use to
  the user? In games, it’s very important because in the virtual world anything
  is possible. You want to be able to really limit the space of possibility
  within the player's mind, or else they'll be stuck. They’ll be at a loss as to
  what to do to progress, or move forward, or to accomplish goals.” — @uhfelix
  [0:17:57]


  - “If you have a lot of focus on player experience, then that would lead you
  to integrate more player feedback into that process.” — @uhfelix [0:25:11]


  **Links Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**

  - [Felix Park on Twitter](https://twitter.com/uhfelix)

  - [Felix Park](http://www.felixpark.com/)

  - [The Design of Everyday
  Things](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Everyday-Things-Revised-Expanded/dp/0465050654)

  - [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en)

  - [Enjoy the Vue](https://enjoythevue.io/)
transcript: >-
  EPISODE 42


  [INTRO]


  [00:00:09] T: Hey, everybody, and welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I am Tessa, and
  today on our panel we have Ari Clark. 


  [00:00:15] AC: Hello. 


  [00:00:17] T: Guest panelist, Ringo Kim. 


  [00:00:19] RK: Hi. 


  [00:00:20] T: And our special guest for this episode is Felix Park. Felix,
  would you like to introduce yourself?


  [00:00:25] FP: Hi, I’m Felix. I’ve been a game designer/programmer in the
  games industry for eight years, working on any number of projects from small
  indie titles to big AAA games, and I’m really glad to be here. 


  [00:00:38] T: So what does it mean to be a game designer exactly?


  [00:00:42] FP: So game design is basically – There's a really great sort of
  metaphor here proposed by a game designer named Liz England. I think she's
  over at Ubisoft Toronto these days. So, if you look at a door in a game,
  there's a number of different things that go into that door. So there's the
  art of the door, which is like what the artists make. If you need to animate
  the door, then the animators make the animation for the door. The actual
  function of the door opening and closing, literally like trying to trigger
  that animation, or trying to place that door, sort of be able to render it in
  the game itself, that's like a programming role. 


  But a game designer would sort of decide what the door does, what function the
  door has in the game. Do you need a key to open the door? They basically
  answer all the questions regarding the context of the door. So game design
  sort of encompasses the design of things inside games versus like
  implementation of them, although it does [inaudible 00:01:35] sometimes. But
  that’s basically a long-winded answer to like what a game designer does,
  because you tend to get that question a lot when you're talking to people who
  aren't super familiar with it.


  But basically, game designers decide if there is a door in a game, like what
  does it do, how do you open it, what other context is in there, and sort of
  try and do that in order to make an enjoyable game experience for someone. 


  [00:01:56] T: Very cool. Can you talk a little bit more I guess about, if this
  falls under game design? Correct me if I’m wrong. Like the art of leading the
  user to the door, or somehow creating inferences for them to figure out how to
  use the door, because I feel like that's something that we have a lot in web
  design as well, is like how can we make this app as usable as possible?


  [00:02:20] FP: Yeah. In terms of like usability, I guess it's all under – In
  app development, it would be under sort of the umbrella of like user
  experience/user interface design. There is a pretty large analog between that
  and like game development where game designers will try to figure out like how
  do we push players towards certain things, pull them away from certain things,
  try to streamline the experience, and make things attractive to use, try to
  integrate affordances into how you might use that, use things in games. or how
  you navigate spaces?


  So, yeah, definitely a large analog with that. 


  [00:02:53] T: Are there certain tricks that you like to use or like have you
  ever maybe designed a feature, then, when you were testing it out, users were
  not interacting with the things the way that you had expected, and so you had
  to change up the design?


  [00:03:06] AC: In other words, have you failed?


  [00:03:10] FP: Yeah. It’s pretty much part and parcel of game design is to, as
  much as you can within your abilities, to be able to test your things. Play
  tests are super common as an iterative step in game design where you just
  bring it in front of players, whether that be anything as informal as you call
  a friend over and have them play your game for a bit, to staging very complex
  focus tests where you're tracking a lot of analytics when they're playing the
  game. Everything from the very informal stuff to the very formal stuff, like
  try to integrate at any step in the design process those things to make
  essentially a better experience for the player. 


  Especially if like, say, in AAA games, so very, very large scale games, like
  you want to make a game that essentially anybody can pick up and play, because
  you need to have the widest cross appeal to have the widest possible audience.
  Testing is a super important step in that because you don't want to create
  anything that even someone who's not super familiar with games generally might
  not know controls very well, or might have some difficulty with some of the
  more obscure parts of the games that require certain amount of literacy. 


  Say you have like knowing that if you enter a space and there's a certain
  camera angle that it's facing towards after, say, a cut scene. So a
  non-interactive segment plays out. The camera is aligned towards a particular
  direction. If you're pretty literate in games, you kind of realize, “Oh, I
  should like go in that direction.” But sometimes, people will, if they're not
  so familiar with the language of sort of how cameras work in, say, especially
  3D games, how cameras work in 3D games, they might be inclined to just like go
  off in very unusual directions that design doesn't anticipate. 


  Even in that case, we have to constantly strive to make sure that people are
  being guided towards optimal, not so frustrating experience, unless you do
  want to frustrate them, in which case that's like an entirely different design
  challenge. But, yeah, like basically that is sort of the goal is to make sure
  that like anybody can play our games with hopefully the most minimum amount of
  direct interference or touch on that. 


  [00:03:10] T: Yeah. That like reminds me of natural scroll on MacBooks and how
  I always have to turn it off because I feel like it's very unnatural. Also, I
  was thinking about like the conversation we had where I was complaining to you
  about how like in all of the 3D games, when the cut scene ends and you go back
  to your character that they do that like shoulder relaxing thing. Anyway, I
  was wondering if, for our listeners before we move on, if you could briefly
  explain what a AAA game is. 


  [00:06:00] FP: Yeah. So AAA games are very informal designation but usually
  when we split up the kind of essentially product that you make in industry. So
  AAA game would fall into sort of the most expensive productions. So if you
  could make an analog to like, say, filmmaking, the AAA game would be like the
  sort of blockbuster that gets released in the summer, very high budget, large
  teams involved. With AAA game, you typically see a budget in the several
  millions with a team size of like 100 people or more, going up into the
  thousands for some of the biggest like yearly releases. Also, yeah, you'd
  expect like sort of the most deployment as well. So AAA games tend to be on
  like multiple different platforms to be able to be purchased, although
  technically the AAA games I work on are exclusive to Sony platforms, which is
  sort of its own sector of AAA games. 


  [00:06:59] T: Yeah. The app I work on is also exclusive to the Chrome
  platform, so that's the same thing, right? 


  [00:07:05] AC: Yeah. Me too.  


  [00:07:05] FP: Yeah. I mean, it's basically. Yeah. 


  [00:07:08]  AC: So what led you to game design? As I know that that can be a
  hard space to break into and also stay in, so why?


  [00:07:18] FP: Why do anything?


  [00:07:21] T: Felix. 


  [00:07:23] FP: Yeah. So I got started sort of – I mean, it's pretty typical.
  As a kid, I played a lot of video games, along with reading books, or going
  outside, and – when you still could go outside. It basically started sort of
  from – It started solidifying my mind that this was an actual viable career
  after sort of picking up on articles in gaming enthusiast magazines I had
  subscriptions to, because I was a big reader back when I was a kid. As you do
  as a child, you get gaming magazine subscriptions. 


  [00:07:55] AC: As you do. 


  [00:07:56] FP: Yeah, as you do. So I went to like Electronic Gaming Monthly. I
  had one to Nintendo Power. So occasionally, you see these like sort of
  interest pieces regarding game developers and sort of what are game developers
  because the sort of knowledge base around sort of game development was very,
  very obscure. It’s pretty insular development community even now. Back then,
  it was like pretty much impenetrable to any consumer, but it's gotten a lot
  better recently with a lot more exposure.


  It’s still fairly common to see people who don't really know that people make
  video games, not just computers that you just click on a button in like some
  mythical computer program, and then it suddenly just poops out a game. I’m
  pretty sure you guys are on the same issue in app development as well. 


  [00:08:42] AC: All the time.


  [00:08:43] FP: Yeah, exactly. As a kid, I got an insight into that and that
  really intrigued me that people made these things. It was either that or
  become like the great next American novelist. In college –


  [00:08:56] T: I like how that was your fallback plan. 


  [00:08:58] FP: Yeah. Well, those are the only two things I really liked, like
  wanted to really pop into was doing creative writing or playing video games.
  That was like my two main activities. So in college, I actually went to my
  undergraduate because they had like a really sick – It was a really good
  school, with a great creative writing program, but also they had a graduate
  school that specialized in entertainment technology. It was Carnegie Mellon’s
  Entertainment Technology Center, and I actually heard about that through an
  article I read in middle school in an Electronic Gaming Monthly. So it was all
  kind of confluential on all my life decisions, this like random article. 


  [00:09:46] RR: Do you have that framed like above your desk?


  [00:09:49] FP: I should actually. I have all my magazines back at home, so I
  should actually like poke through and see like if I could find the soul
  inspiration. But after graduating from school in 2010, like the economy was
  still very bad, and there weren't a lot of gigs for people with a writing
  degree going around. So I decided to sort of either apply to grad school and
  get into that grad school I've been hoping to get into, or I guess go teach
  English in Korea for a few years, and sort of like put my life on pause. But
  luckily, I got into grad school and, from there, here I am. Yeah. 


  It’s basically the design focus also was sort of the result of me being always
  interested in design as a discipline, whether that was industrial design or
  graphic design. Sort of like seeing like the ways that creating objects of
  some utility that people can use or experience has always kind of held an
  interest for me that – I guess a sort of like general design thinking exercise
  sort of mindset. It’s always sort of appealed to me, so design was sort of a
  natural way for me to get in there. Also, I have no other particular talents
  in art, programming, or – [inaudible 00:11:04] because I’m a programmer now.
  But for a long time, my programming aptitude was like not great. So in terms
  of contribution, that was like pretty much my go-to. Not only because of my
  preferences but also because of like my absences in terms of like skill sets. 


  [00:11:25] T: Well, that’s pretty interesting because I feel like, when you
  started your job in the game industry, it's not like you hadn't been exposed
  to coding before, right?


  [00:11:34] FP: Yes. So I started making like very small almost HyperCard-esque
  experiences in HTML for my friends back in middle school. 


  [00:11:43] T: And for our listeners, I’m surprised that I've heard of
  HyperCard. Can you explain what a HyperCard is?


  [00:11:49] FP: HyperCard was this software that Apple made way back in the day
  for like old Macintosh. Think Mac OS like going on. I use it on Mac OS 9. You
  could create sort of like almost these interlinked slide shows. I don't want
  to like say too much about it because I'm not super familiar with it. But
  basically, you can sort of create text that you could then like click on a
  link and then go to another thing.


  I think HyperCard was originally like either like some sort of like almost
  like presentation software. I actually do not know it all. I’ve technically
  never even used HyperCard. I just know about it because it's a very popular
  reference in the game development community. But now, I'm revealed as some
  sort of like a sham.


  [00:12:38] T: Charlatan.  


  [00:12:39] FP: Yeah. But what I would do is I was essentially making a
  choose-your-own-adventure book, but it was a web page. I would just write a
  little story blurb, include a length of what choices you could have. Then you
  could click on the link and then go to another page that had another sort of
  interesting thing going on. So I started making those as my first sort of
  interactive games way back in middle school, sort of turn of the century. Wow,
  it's really referred to like –


  [00:13:08] AC: I believe you mean millennium. 


  [00:13:10] FP: The turn of the millennium. That’s even crazier. Anyway, but
  from there, I did computer science in high school because I was interested in
  the subject. I was always kind of keen on computers, as anybody probably in
  their 20s or 30s listening to this podcast was back in the day, and then 20s,
  30s, 40s, or 50s. Sorry, I don’t want to be exclusionary. So, yeah, going into
  it into college, I took like – I actually got a minor in computer science but
  I failed on doing a double major because I couldn't do linear algebra. Going
  into the industry, I had some programming knowledge but nowhere near the
  amount that I think one would require to actually do a full-time gig in the
  games industry. 


  But as the years progressed, I sort of accumulated knowledge on the job, as
  you could say, along with like doing stuff as a hobby, like just programming
  in my free time. Yeah, the hustle culture I guess we call it. 


  [00:14:07] T: My favorite. 


  [00:14:09] FP: Yeah. I’m sure you guys are real pro hustle culture, like just
  work all the time, and don't take breaks. Yeah. Not so much my mode nowadays
  definitely. 


  [00:14:09] AC: Never has been for me. 


  [00:14:20] FP: Excellent. 


  [00:14:21] AC: I’m lazy. 


  [00:14:23] FP: No. That’s not laziness. That’s like taking care of yourself
  honestly. 


  [00:14:27] AC: I have to. 


  [00:14:29] FP: Yeah. 


  [00:14:29] AC: Does that end well?


  [00:14:31] RK: So, Felix, going back to game design, right, I think you were
  talking about like educating the users, educating the person that is playing
  the games? How do you lead a user to make certain decisions? What tools do you
  use? Can you talk a little bit about that?


  [00:14:49] FP: Yeah. You could use basically anything at your disposal. It’s
  really great because games are this thing you just make up in its entirety.
  You can, down to the very weird, basic, physical –what we perceive as physical
  – elements, you can use all of them to influence people, whether that's
  lighting. So using a very simple example of navigation, if you want to lead
  someone to, say like a, platform, you can light the platform differently. You
  can actually just add a light in there to emphasize this thing in the space
  and then darken everything else. You can use UI to do it. So you can have a
  floating element that has like big circle like on it being like, “Go here,” or
  like an arrow. If you want to be particularly inelegant, that's a very popular
  go-to. 


  You could slow time down, manipulate the view of the player, emphasize this
  thing, and then go back. But it could also be very something very delicate as
  well. The example I mentioned before like just simply pointing the camera
  somewhere. That is like a very, very like easy touch to go to in terms of like
  leading someone to a certain location. You can make sound cues, where music
  would just slowly get louder the more you like go towards a certain direction.


  There’s a number of tools you can do basically everything under the sun, but
  that's actually like a very trodden ground in terms of game design thinking is
  guiding the player navigation-wise. But here it gets really tricky is when you
  want them to do something like completely unexpected, in which case like
  ideally your design would follow very naturally. The sort of affordances
  available to the player in order to accomplish some goal you have in mind for
  them would make sense as like a thing in the real world that you do. 


  So affordance is a term that is used pretty commonly through many fields of
  design. It originates from a book called The Design of Everything or –


  [00:16:50] T: Is it the one with like the red kettle?


  [00:16:52] FP: It is the one with the red kettle, yes. The Design of Everyday
  Things. So affordances are lifted from a book called The Design of Everyday
  Things by this usability engineer named Donald Norman. I think this was
  written back in like the ‘80s I believe. Affordances are basically sort of the
  – I’m going to really mangle this explanation up. But at least from what I
  understand, affordances are sort of like the concept of what is possible with
  a thing as expressed through its design. So if you see, say, a scroll bar,
  scroll bars don't have any wiggle room from side to side, if you're looking at
  a vertical scroll bar. So hopefully, that design communicates to the user that
  they can only go up and down, same thing with a horizontal scroll bar. 


  If you have a car's shifter in front of you, hopefully that can communicate to
  you the design of the shifter and sort of like where the stick of the shifter
  can go. Hopefully, that communicates to the user that the affordance of this
  is limited in certain ways. So affordance is this concept of how does the
  design communicate its use to the user? In games, it’s very important because
  in the virtual world anything is possible. You want to be able to really limit
  the space of possibility within the player's mind, or else they'll be stuck.
  They’ll be at a loss as to what to do to progress, or move forward, or to
  accomplish goals. 


  If everything is possible, then you can attempt everything and sort of
  experience failure repeatedly until you find the exact right answer that the
  developer had in mind for you except, of course, in like more open-ended
  games. In which case, there are many, many examples of the genre where the
  purpose is to make it so that it's more of a sandbox for the player that a lot
  of affordances are available at all times, and sort of the fun of the game is
  to be able to explore that and to come up with novel solutions. But for most
  games and sort of the games I make, the affordances are fairly limited just so
  that like you have a sort of optimum linear experience. So I guess, yeah, the
  difference would be like linearity versus nonlinearity of the experience, as
  well as also consideration when deciding your affordances. 


  So let's say that you wanted them to be able to cross a river in the game.
  Ideally, maybe in the space, if you have like – Let’s say it's an action
  adventure game where you have free movement of character and free movement of
  the camera. It’s just like Mario, or Uncharted, or God of War, or any number
  of very popular games in that space. You can – If you say have a – It’s very
  hard to sort of think about this kind of stuff sometimes because your mind
  wants to lead to the easy solutions. But let's go for a naturalistic solution
  here. If you encountered a stream in real life, what would you do? Maybe you’d
  find a wooden pallet. No, because that would float down the stream. Let’s say
  you have a –


  [00:19:59] T: I mean, how big is the stream? I feel like you could just step
  over. 


  [00:20:02] FP: Exactly, right? Okay, let's say it's like a six-foot stream.
  You can’t jump like that but you do have a ladder nearby. So you can grab the
  ladder, set it down, and then walk across the ladder. Well, how does the
  player know that the ladder is even interactable, right? You have to like
  place a big old prompt on it maybe or you have the camera point to it after
  the character says, “Huh, I need to cross this gap,” and then a not so subtle
  camera turn to the ladder. 


  That’s like a thing that can correspond to the real world, but then you have
  stuff where – Let’s say you're playing like a very cartoony, unrealistic game
  and you have like hover boots. So how do you know where to use the hover
  boots? So, let's say the hover boots don't last forever. Let’s say they have
  like an activation time of say like maybe 10 meters. So, how do you point out
  to the player that certain gaps are jumpable versus certain gaps are not
  jumpable? If you have a gap that's like, say, 13 meters, you want to make it
  very, very clear to the player that that is not achievable or else they'll
  attempt it, fail, and then they'll have to start over again. And they'll have
  to do this like 50 ,000 times, and that can lead to something else. 


  So, you need to establish design language of some sort to be able to tell the
  player like, “No, this is not jumpable,” or, “No, you can't use the hover
  boots here,” or, “Yes, you can use hover boots here.” Whether that is having
  every gap that's 10 meters or less, very clearly signposted versus anything
  else. That almost allows you to sort of go like – If I were, say, a level
  designer, which is what we call people who usually build out these spaces and
  games. If I were a level designer, I’d say, “Okay, we need a moratorium here.
  We have to prohibit any gap that is 10 meters or it is more than 10 meters to
  20 meters.” 20 meters is – We’ve play tested this. We found out that like
  people will constantly try to attempt gaps anywhere in that range. But at 20
  meters, people are like fully in the zone of like, “I cannot jump this.” So,
  that's actually pretty safe. Otherwise, like anything between those distances,
  like we're hereby now disallowing. 


  So, that will then extend to the entire game itself to establish a design
  language around the spaces and what affordances are available to the player.
  Through that, you can start to come up with, I guess, a sort of system of what
  you're available to use to guide the player around, especially with the
  repetition of certain guideposts, right? So, let's say I use that camera move
  like once in the game. Then if the player gets that, then they'll kind of know
  and internalize that maybe not consciously but maybe sub-consciously be like,
  “Oh, the developer wants me to go over here or the designer wants me to go
  over here and like pick this thing up or go over here if the camera points
  there.”


  As you start doing these repetitions of how you guide the player around,
  hopefully they internalize that and will then have an easier time going
  through the game and experiencing it. Guiding the player sort of encompasses
  all of the above, which is a lot of just stuff, I guess. 


  [00:23:04] RK: Yeah. That’s definitely like very difficult to balance, right?
  How do you define like a good system? What is the balance between like too
  much hand holding versus like no hand holding at all and the user won't be
  able to efficiently find the right solution? There must be a balance with it.
  How do you balance it? What’s a good example of that?


  [00:23:24] FP: Yeah. That’s a great question actually. It’s a very subtle
  thing because it depends on sort of how you want to present the game. Think
  about, say, a lot of times the way I thought about in jobs is pacing, right?
  So to have a maximally taxing experience at all times leads to a fairly
  different play experience than like having a game that's like very easy all
  the time. For a really like optimum – psychologically you'd call it sort of a
  hook, of like being able to play a game and sort of like have a good time with
  it and play it for longer periods of time, you want to pace it out. So you
  essentially have high intensity moments of, say, difficulty interspersed with
  low intensity moments. 


  In that case, the context of at what time you're doing this stuff would lead
  you to sort of make that decision of the difficulty balance. That would be
  like local maximums and local minimums of difficulty. But for like, say, the
  difficulty of an entire game or, say, like very classically like a difficulty
  setting in a game, where I'm playing like I'm playing on normal difficulty,
  easy difficulty, hard difficulty. To be honest, the best thing I’ve seen in
  order to be able to balance that and make those decisions is play testing. You
  look at, say, the subjective experience of a play tester who is like, “I
  usually play games on hard difficulty. Let me play your game and see like how
  many times I die or how many times I'm frustrated by things. If I think it’s
  like – If I’m having too easy of a time” – You try to get their gauge of like
  if that game has met their expectations or not. Also, you try to use your own
  intuition, which depending on how a game designer you are, you might have
  varying results. 


  But, for the most part, in terms of deciding things, it's basically up to your
  own personal preference if you're just free wheeling. If you have a lot of
  focus on player experience, then that would lead you to integrate more player
  feedback into that process. 


  [00:25:19] RR: And that's all for this week's episode. Join us next time when
  we discuss user testing and striving for work-life balance. And until then,
  Enjoy the Vue.


  [END]
---
