---
episode-number: 45
episode-title: Using Code as a Tool for Creative Expression with Pine Wu
date-published: 2020-12-14T12:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-45.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: Coming soon
shownotes: >-
  **Overview**


  Programming is not just about creating enterprise-level apps but can be put to
  work to help people express themselves creatively in many different ways. This
  is just one of a few profound takeaways from today’s show, where we got a
  chance to sit down with Pine Wu, former Visual Studio Code developer at
  Microsoft who built Vetur, a language server that enhances the Vue editing
  experience. We talk to Pine about Vetur’s background and functionality, his
  current nomadic pursuits, and his approach to programming as an art or a means
  to art more than anything else. On the subject of Vetur, Pine explains the
  context behind the name, and what led him to build the project in the first
  place. He speaks about how he built out early versions of Vetur by leveraging
  open source code from other platforms, how the project blew up overnight, its
  current abilities, and what the future holds. From there, we move on to
  discuss Pine’s thoughts about what coding means to him. We touch on ideas
  about the value of exploring content outside of one's discipline, the line
  between learning and building, and how the tools we create and use structure
  the way we think about what we work on as well as what we build. Pine also
  shares a bunch of cool resources today – creative projects using Vue and other
  frameworks, as well as key texts and talks that have influenced his ideas
  about art, perception, tools, and computer science. For a wide-reaching
  conversation about creativity, learning, and writing software that is useful
  to the world outside of corporations, be sure to tune in!


  **Key Points From This Episode:**


  - An intro into Pine, his experiences at Microsoft, and the work he does in
  Visual Studio Code.

  - What leading a nomadic life means to Pine, and the things he enjoys learning
  as a freelancer.

  - Pine’s ideas about not only being a programmer but wanting to study graphic
  design too.

  - An intro into Vetur, Pine’s project that provides autocomplete functionality
  for Vue files.

  - How Pine has expanded Vetur’s functionality beyond autocomplete and
  diagnostic errors.

  - The beginnings of Vetur: Pine’s love of Vue which wasn’t compatible with VS
  Code.

  - How Pine developed early Vetur versions by copy-pasting and modifying parts
  of existing support from other platforms.

  - The story of Vetur’s huge early success after the creator of Repl tweeted
  about it.

  - Humor in Pine’s talks and how his non-sugarcoated approach plays into this.

  Pine’s rapid prototyping tool and how it fits in with his passion for enabling
  expressive coding.

  - Perspectives on the idea that tools shape how we think and what we build. 

  - Pine’s thoughts on future Vetur upgrades: A type renaming tool and more.

  - The human languages and programming languages Pine is fluent in.

  Matthew Butterick’s work with Racket and why Pine wants to learn this language
  next.

  - The line between learning and building; recent projects Pine did and what
  they taught him.

  - Pine’s approach to learning programming as a means of achieving his creative
  ends.

  - The added perceptive abilities you get from learning things outside of your
  field.

  - Why ‘computer science’ is a misnomer, describing an art more than a science;
  how Pine got into programming.

  - New features in Vue 3 and the changes Pine has to make to Vetur to support
  them.

  - The online channels that Pine is most active on; where to find him if you’d
  like to get in touch.

  - All the great picks from our hosts and guest from today’s episode.


  **Tweetables:**


  - “If you are editing a TypeScript or JavaScript file in your Visual Studio
  Code, you see that after you press a dot you see a lot of autocompletions.
  Those are powered by what is called a language server and a language server
  basically analyzes the whole code base, breaks your code into abstract syntax
  trees, analyzes them, and then gives you autocompletion and diagnostic errors.
  Vetur basically does that for Vue files.” — @octref [0:07:34]

  - “As a programmer, my passion is not writing enterprise-level or large scale
  Vue apps. My interest is more in the expressive side of coding.” — @octref
  [0:17:01]

  - “Without a microscope, you are unable to work with bacteria. Without a
  telescope, you are unable to work with galaxies. It’s only with these tools
  that you can perceive certain things.” — @octref [0:22:10]

  - “I learn while I’m doing so I try to start new projects that help me learn.”
  — @octref [0:28:45]

  - “I would rather sign up for a course in sociology or philosophy or design
  rather than sign up for a course in programming. That’s how I learn and try to
  improve my ways of thinking.” — @octref [0:30:39]

  - “Other than learning to innovate on new ideas, I also want to learn to be
  able to see certain things that people of other disciplines can’t. That’s one
  of the reasons I am learning to draw with color.” — @octref [0:33:13]


  **Links Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**


  - [Pine Wu on GitHub](https://github.com/octref)

  - [Pine Wu on Twitter](https://twitter.com/octref?lang=en)

  - [Pine Wu Blog](https://blog.matsu.io/)

  - [Vetur](https://vuejs.github.io/vetur/)

  - [Mrmrs](http://mrmrs.cc/)

  - [Von by Yoko Kanno](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfksYyxGRJw)

  - [Terror in Resonance](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3613454/)

  - [Tyler Hobbs’s Guide to Simulating Watercolor
  Paint](https://tylerxhobbs.com/essays/2017/a-generative-approach-to-simulating-watercolor-paints)

  - [Inventing on Principle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUv66718DII)

  - [Structure and Interpretation of Computer
  Programs](https://www.amazon.com/Structure-Interpretation-Computer-Programs-Engineering/dp/0262510871)

  - [Pollen](https://docs.racket-lang.org/pollen/)

  - [Beautiful Racket](https://beautifulracket.com/)

  - [Hackers and Painters](http://www.paulgraham.com/hp.html)

  - [5-in1 Sit-Stand
  Desk](https://www.moft.us/products/moft-z-5-in-1-sit-stand-desk)

  - [The Dance of
  Anger](https://www.amazon.com/Dance-Anger-Changing-Patterns-Relationships/dp/0062319043)

  - ['Unraveling the
  JPEG'](https://parametric.press/issue-01/unraveling-the-jpeg/)

  - [Renpure Rosemary Mint
  Conditioner](https://www.renpure.com/products/hair/solutions-rosemary-mint-cleansing-conditioner/)

  - [Bret Victor](http://worrydream.com/)

  - [poolside.fm](https://poolside.fm/)

  - [The New Media Reader](http://www.newmediareader.com/)

  - [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en
transcript: >
  EPISODE 43


  [INTRO]


  [00:00:10] BH: Hey, everybody. Welcome to Enjoy The Vue. I’m Ben. Today on our
  panel, we have Ari.


  [00:00:15] AC: Hello.


  [00:00:17] BH: And Tessa.


  [00:00:18] T: Hello.


  [00:00:19] BH: Our special guest for this episode is the amazing Pine Wu.
  Pine, would you like to introduce yourself?


  [00:00:27] PW: Hi, everyone. I’m Pine. Yeah. I’m not currently in Shanghai,
  but previously, I was working at Microsoft and we just do their code. I think
  for people in a Vue community, most of you know me probably on [inaudible
  00:00:38], the Vue coding for VS code. Yeah, so for me I use Vue work on batch
  in Microsoft and the one was in college, but now I’ve moved down and I’m
  living a nomadic life, where I’m a little bit trapped by the COVID-19, so I
  cannot travel anywhere. Ideally, I would like to travel to different places
  and try to do open source. Yeah, continue to contributing later.


  [00:01:01] BH: That’s amazing.


  [00:01:01] T: Can you talk a little bit more about what a nomadic life in
  place is like?


  [00:01:05] PW: Yeah. I think, considering my background for me is dev
  security, I bet you have a linking of price longer, than if you are touring
  so. Then, I wouldn’t really want to do tourist thesis by just going to a place
  and stay there for just a week. I would like to stay, hopefully, for three
  months. If I ever to go to a place, I probably hope you learn the language. In
  the past summer, I was then to go to Russia to learn Russian, but that
  couldn’t happen because of the COVID-19 situation. Yeah. Hopefully, it will
  end soon and then I can travel again.


  [00:01:38] T: Yeah. I feel like Microsoft too, just traveling the world is a
  big change. We talked a little bit about a blog post you wrote about in a
  previous episode. I’m wondering if you can elaborate on that a bit more and
  what’s new since then?


  [00:01:52] PW: Oh, yeah. Sure. What’s new is that I get a lot more free time
  to focus on my own learning, because I felt if you’re at a company, a lot of
  the times if you’re to learn, you would be required to learn new technologies,
  or web stuff. It’s not like you get time to learn other stuff, like I spend
  time to learn Letterpress. I spend time to learn a little bit water color. I
  spend a lot of time reading books.


  I feel like if you’re in a company steady, usually, you’re not given enough
  time to do that, because usually, everyday when you go back home, it’s almost
  already very light. Yeah. For me, I say that yeah, every day I want to spend
  more time to read books, to read papers and to do some fun projects, as
  compared to like spending every day doing company projects. I thought I had
  saved off enough money to support myself for a while, so I said, “Yeah. Why
  don’t I just try it? Because now I’m still young and I can still try.” If I
  grow older, I would have a lot of probably family responsibility and other
  stuff. I wouldn’t really be as free to do this nomadic life. Now I can still
  do that.


  [00:03:05] T: We’re just silent, because we’re so amazed that you can fit so
  much into one life.


  [00:03:10] PW: Oh, yeah. I don’t know. If I had know too much. For example,
  yeah, I felt like, I don’t know, after college, it has been straight to
  Microsoft and then I went to quit Microsoft and then started to travel. I
  could have done a lot more. For example, I was planning to apply to graduate
  school and then if possible, I would like to do MFA, like master on fine arts
  or something. I want to try different things, rather than just stereotype cold
  programmer’s track, because there are other things interest me, much more than
  programming does.


  [00:03:43] BH: I have to ask, Pine, what would you get a MFA in?


  [00:03:47] PW: I think, probably graphic design, because that’s something that
  I’m really interested in. I think if you look through the history of graphic
  design, technology paves the way for a lot of the new ways of designing and
  new concepts that are coming up. For example, I don’t know if you know a
  person called, I don’t know. I think his short name is MRMRS and he’s doing
  something in component AI, where something – I think those things are just –
  there are just so many new technology advances that can make design better, or
  cooler, or more consistent, or more user-friendly. I think that’s something I
  would like to do, so use technology as a tool behind the graphic design.


  [00:04:29] BH: Wow.


  [00:04:30] T: Yeah. Sounds cool.


  [00:04:32] BH: Wow.


  [00:04:34] AC: I thought I’m aiming low in life.


  [00:04:38] PW: Not really, Ari. I think everybody here probably does a great
  job. I know Ben, you work at GitLab. You are working at more web development.
  Ari, I don’t know much about you, but I heard you are doing UI/UX. It’s a
  craft.


  [00:04:51] AC: That is correct. About to start a new job though. It’s very
  exciting.


  [00:04:55] BH: Yeah. By the time this comes out, so technically, I’m not at
  GitLab and not at Cypress.


  [00:05:03] T: [Inaudible 00:05:03]?


  [00:05:07] AC: By the time this comes out.


  [00:05:08] BH: By the time this comes out. Yeah, with Netlify. I’ll be with
  Netlify this time.


  [00:05:13] PW: Oh, you’re at Netlify now. Okay. Cool.


  [00:05:16] BH: You mentioned earlier, just very casually that you happen to
  create Vetur, which I think has something like, how many? 5.5 million on, at
  least according to visualstudio.com.


  [00:05:26] PW: yeah. I think that’s a lot of people.

  [00:05:28] BH: Yeah. Just a few million.


  [00:05:32] AC: That’s amazing.


  [00:05:35] PW: I never expected it when I started.


  [00:05:39] BH: What would you describe, like what is Vetur for those who might
  have – because believe it or not, there are people who’ve never used it
  before, even though there are so many people. What is Vetur? How would you
  describe it to people?


  [00:05:52] PW: Okay. First, I would say, Vetur is an Icelandic word that stand
  for winter.


  [00:05:57] BH: I did not know that.


  [00:05:58] AC: That is so fascinating.


  [00:06:01] PW: Okay. Cool. Okay. Maybe you are more interested in the
  alternative history of Vetur than the actual Vetur. Basically, there was a
  sound that I relax is by Kanno Yoko, so called Von. Von stands for hope in
  Icelandic. Basically, there was the anime and the there was this song called,
  yeah, Von and then it talks about Vetur and I like this word very much and it
  also starts with V. I really want to find a word that starts with V and that’s
  really unique. I just picked this name and then for it.


  [00:06:34] T: Okay. Which anime was it in?


  [00:06:37] PW: Tokyo Zankyo. I think the English is Terror in Resonance. I can
  send you the link. It’s called Terror in Resonance. This one. I know that
  Japenese, Zankyo no Teroru. Okay. I should get back to the topic. Basically,
  for [inaudible 00:06:56]. Sorry for the aside.


  [00:07:01] BH: No. We love tangents.


  [00:07:03] T: I mean, anime is very on interview is what I heard.


  [00:07:06] PW: Okay. Yeah. Sure. Because I heard each version consists of
  anime title.

  [00:07:11] BH: Yeah. One piece represent.


  [00:07:13] PW: Basically, for Vetur, I think there are two parts. Yeah, so in
  general, it’s tooling support for Vue, single file components. It has two
  parts, basically. I think it’s highlighting grammar for Vue files and then
  basically, the language server side will Vue files. For people who don’t know,
  if you are editing, that’s great for a JavaScript style. You just need no code
  and you get to be, oh, after you press that, you see a lot of auto-completion.
  Probably, those are powered by what’s called a language server.


  The language server basically analyze the whole code base pre-QR code into
  abstract and text trees, analyze them and then give you some auto-completion,
  give you diagnostic errors when you are writing something wrong. Vetur
  basically does that for Vue files. Because for typescript files, typescript
  people already have this server than can support them and then they don’t
  support Vue files.


  What I did was extending the type to the language server to support Vue files.
  For Vue files, I think yeah, a lot of the functionalities – I think the most
  popular functionalities are just auto-completion and diagnostic errors. I
  think now, I have expanded Vetur into other areas. Now I have CRI that you
  check errors from the CRI that you can make and integrate that into your
  continues integration system, so that you can check for errors. I think it’s
  yeah, in short, it’s just a hodge-podge of tooling for me –


  [00:08:44] BH: Hodge-podge.


  [00:08:46] PW: Yeah. Hopefully, content is everything you ever need and you
  don’t need to input any other extension.


  [00:08:53] AC: I mean, I switched to VS code just for Vetur. You obviously did
  something right.


  [00:08:58] BH: I think that’s a lot of people.


  [00:09:01] PW: Okay. Yeah. Sure. Because I found it basically contains
  everything. If you just talk about formatter, I have six different formatters
  that allows you to configurate totally like being anywhere you want. I
  remember when people want pre tier to support VON, then pre tier was like,
  “Oh, hey. We don’t really want to do that.” There are only one option we’re
  going to offer you.


  Then in Vetur, you can already use six formatters for each section that you
  want. We basically have all the formatters that’s available on the market. We
  even have a pod formatter in today, because yeah, there is a pod formatter, so
  we bundled that.


  [00:09:35] BH: Amazing. Basically, the developer experience that we know and
  love in VX code, you can think Pine for basically, helping to spearhead this
  amazing initiative, which we are all, I am sure, immensely grateful for.


  [00:09:52] PW: I am glad to know that it helps people. Because basically, I
  think I love creating tooling to help people and I feel, I don’t know, like I
  felt – I always felt obliged if I were to create a tool that helps people from
  all over the world and makes them more productive, more make them happy.
  Sometimes I do receive thank you e-mails and stuff and that makes me really
  happy.


  [00:10:14] BH: I will say, that in open source, a lot of people, they tend to
  file issues and stuff when they have problems and it leads to just a lot of
  complaining. Yes, if you have a word of compliment, it goes a long way for
  open source maintainers. You hit it on the head there, Pine.


  [00:10:31] T: What inspired you? Did you just wake up one day and feel like,
  “I wish there was this thing for Vue”? How did you find this and then how did
  you come to make Vetur?


  [00:10:40] PW: Yeah. That’s a good question. I think I was in my last year of
  college and then I was not really sure what to do and that I really liked Vue.
  I had this, I started with React. I was a very early rep, like probably, I
  started using it when it was in 0.2. I didn’t really like it. Then I was like,
  I switched to Vue, because the documentation is so much rather and it’s so
  much more accessible and approachable. Yeah, I just started Vue and then at
  that time, I was using Sublime Text.


  I found like, yeah, it’s working well and then there is also a tool from
  Microsoft called Visual Studio Code that was coming out. I think that was also
  very early. I tried that and I liked it, but it doesn’t really have Vue
  support. I was looking at sublime support and I found that syntax highlighting
  has something missing that equals for a lot of the properties and stuff. It
  doesn’t really highlight them properly.


  I send the little bit of ERQ there and then I think, I might accepted those
  ERs, but then later I said, “Oh, I want call it Vue in Visual Studio Code,
  because I found I lack the editor lock. I just quoted the type grammar over,
  so people who don’t know match up all that text-made grammars. Basically,
  sublime text we use its textmate grammars to do some highlighting and the VS
  code also uses that.


  It’s basically really easy. I just copied over the grammar and it made it work
  on Vetur. Basically, just copy paste and then 001 just went off and then
  people not get – yeah, that’s how that started. It has that really humble
  beginning. I think it just only sync has highlighting, but not off the
  entirely gen features. Yeah, but then later, I realized, “Oh, there is
  something cool about done with server,” and so then people really want the
  outcome patient to work at least, because that helps you so much when you’re
  coding. What I did was I just basically again, copied over what the VS code
  had for HMS support and to mod it out a bit, if you supported Vue.


  Yeah, more or less, it worked and yeah, that’s how it started. Initially, it
  was a really popular, but I think advantage something like Twitter dot on
  Twitter and then we tweeted that in the Chinese Vue community that start the
  repo. I think overnight, I had like 200 stars and I probably – there really is
  late for the next back to this, because I was so happy with Vue. Great teams
  have huge popularity.


  By now, it has so many stars. I don’t really mind now. At that time, you
  followed back – yeah, being followed and being retweeted, but then and then,
  get something like 200 followers and 500 stars. It was amazing. Yeah, that’s
  how I started.


  [00:13:22] T: I will say though, it doesn’t sound to me like the Vetur were
  humble at all. Just the creator is being very humble about what is a huge
  feat.


  [00:13:32] AC: Though it feels slightly better knowing that there was a lot of
  copy-paste involved.


  [00:13:38] T: He just looked up syntax highlighting on stack overflow.

  [00:13:43] PW: Yeah, totally. Because I found initially, I found just so many
  copy and pasting, I don’t really felt I owned much credit, because I own
  credit to events, and he wrote that syntax highlighted grammar, as in
  somewhere from VS code team wrote HMS support. I just modded a little bit.


  Although in the past few years, I have modded so far away that I no longer
  track upstream changes. I just make my own changes to that HML part.
  Initially, I found like, I don’t know, just how simple doing that. Anybody can
  do. I do felt like it’s not really too much that part. Now it has become so
  popular. It is beyond my imagination. I couldn’t really imagine there are
  millions of people who are – at least when I was at VS code, there was an
  internal doc report showing how many active users I had. I think now, it’s
  almost 1 million. Although, the downloads is 5 million, because some people
  had downloaded this multiple times. I could have never imagined how popular it
  has gone.


  [00:14:40] BH: Yeah.


  [00:14:41] T: Switching text for a moment, because everybody’s laughter
  reminds me like, Pine, I feel like your talks are some of the funniest and
  most engaging talks that I’ve seen. I want to hear all your secrets. Why are
  you so funny? How do you make a talk?


  [00:15:00] PW: I don’t know. I felt that I just really want to visit here when
  talking. Sometimes, I know people have certain social norms, or certain things
  that they really don’t want to talk about in a straightforward way. I try to
  just talk about in a sincere and straightforward way, because I thought some
  people are like, yeah, a lot of times they feel constrained by the yeah, this
  is something I should then say a word. They were supposed to say. If something
  is right, I just got out of bed, so I just try to make everything through a
  statement. Although sometimes, they might not make certain people happy by how
  I really felt.


  I felt that makes it much easier to resonate with my audience, because most of
  the times, these are their true feelings. They would rather hear it not really
  covered, or some sugar-coat word stuff. Yeah, let’s just hide and talk. I
  think a lot of you are like that, so I just continue to speak in that way.


  [00:15:55] T: It’s both a really powerful message and it also reminds me of in
  a previous episode, we were talking about how the talk topic seemed like it
  was gearing into if there was a documentation enemy, then it would be the
  heart of the doc sin, that I feel like we’ve just gotten to the heart of the
  talks.


  [00:16:12] AC: Oh, Tessa.


  [00:16:13] T: You’re scared. Well, shove them through and move the speakers,
  because you’re like, “Ah. Kandoshta.” Speaking of your talks, I think the last
  time I saw you speak, you presented a really cool-looking rapid prototyping
  tool and I’m curious what happened there and if that’s something you still
  plan on, really sing in the future some day.


  [00:16:35] T: Yeah. I do plan, because basically, it’s like my whole passion
  and it’s what I really want to build Vetur NQ. Long story short, I think
  Vetur, I want it to be a really solid tool for professional bill developers,
  so that they can rely on it. Some of the latest features are just prop-type
  validation, as in already how evolved you feel the large scale of Vue
  applications. For me as a programmer, a lot of times, I don’t really enjoy –


  My passion is not writing interpersonal, or large-scale Vue apps. My interest
  is more in the expressive side of coding. For example, one of the link setting
  was Tyler Hops exploration and how would you do generating what are color? I
  think that’s one of the most amazing thing I have seen on well, the Internet.
  I just felt like, yeah, I want to do stuff that have depo express themselves,
  or try new ideas, instead of saying, “Okay. This type validation or this works
  so that this interface is there, so I can use this component very safely. I
  think there is a benefit to safety and being able to build large scale stuff.


  Then alternatively, what I really want to build is something that’s of a very
  low friction, so that people can easily try or build their ideas out. I still
  want to do that. Basically, I think, I first gave the presentation to pro,
  which is an asset. Initially, when I was starting in 2017, I think a lot of
  the technologies was not there. I made it working okay, but not really to the
  level that I really hoped it could be. I think recently, there are a lot of
  stuff that has come together. For example, ES build, which is really cool
  compiler for typescript and JavaScript and it’s really, really fast.


  Then there is agnostic module that’s already in the browser. Then there is the
  VS code notebook APR, which allows you to open a document in a notebook
  format. I think, I want to combine this concept together and then try to build
  something off these latest technologies and APIs, as compared to just revising
  a old idea that had in 2017.


  I could have just released the old version and then just made some people
  liked it. I felt, if I were to do something incomplete, I would rather try to
  do something complete and then something that I personally think I have hold
  it up to my standard. Yeah. I’m sorry for people that I have talked to,
  because I know it gets some people interested and intrigued and then they
  really wan to try it.


  I think the real work situation that if I were to revisit, I am afraid it
  wouldn’t live up to certain people’s expectation. I hold off to that. If I was
  able to release that, I might get too many feature requests and each will send
  that I have to spend the amount of time to fix that. Now looking back, I
  probably should have just released it and then made continuous improvement
  since then, rather than just holding it back. Now, I think yeah, recently
  after doing Vetur and regarding the approach that I’m trying to continue to do
  it further.


  [00:19:51] BH: That’s super exciting. I think the first time I heard about
  your prototyping tool was the very first VueConf in New Orleans. I think, you
  gave out a little presentation on it, right?


  [00:20:01] PW: Yeah. Basically, I didn’t really get it to a really good state
  before the conference, even a week before that, I was still hacking on that
  tool. I saw it was pretty cool and it’s a message that I want to comment with
  people, as I brought it up to the stage. Because I felt like Vetur, I don’t
  know, it helps me go build a large scale Vue apps, where it’s really reliable
  too. What I really want Vue to is something – I don’t know if any of you are
  familiar with grid vectors on work. Basically, that’s a video called loading
  on principle.


  I think that’s where a lot of my inspirations come from. He was just talking
  about hey, in games and the other media, you create tools that allows certain
  ways or developing. Basically, that brings out certain features for maybe what
  effects that’s naturally in other ways, is not possible, because you now have
  the necessary tools to build them. I’m like, I want to build something as cool
  as that, but then I didn’t really get to that point.


  I showed a brief demo and I think I promised a lot of you I would give access
  to them. Actually, the source code and I was missed out on that. I’m so sorry
  about that. I think I am trying to get up again. Because when you’re in a
  corporate environment, I don’t think you have too much time to give out in
  side projects. Maintaining Vetur outside work is already a lot for me.
  Recently, I had more time and creative energy, so I think I am going to put
  that into that project, scale that project and hope I can finally release it
  some time this year.


  [00:21:34] T: Nice. Yeah, that reminds me of when we had Henry on the show a
  month ago maybe. He was talking about Ivan Illich’s tools for [inaudible
  00:21:43] and seem to overlap with that topic of how the tools can shape the
  way that society hates.


  [00:21:51] PW: Sure thing. I had to talk with the same before I ask about. We
  were just in Seattle, so we yeah, had a short coffee chat. I don’t know. I
  think your respond a little bit to your comment, because about basically
  tools, that shed the way that you think about a certain style. I think, I was
  watching a presentation by Alan [inaudible 00:22:08]. I think he was talking
  about hey, this out microscope, you’re unable to work with bacteria. Without a
  telescope, you’re unable to work with galaxies. It’s only with these tools can
  you perceive certain things and understand certain things and be able to put
  forward certain concepts. I do think tools do shape the way that people think.


  I think that’s something you can only look in retrospect and I think now it
  has been there for many years. I think now, I really want to study how it has
  affected the way that people learn and develop Vue and then maybe find ways to
  push the boundary and then make it simpler for people to use Vue, or learn Vue
  if they can do a certain feature. That’s the direction we’re pushing for.


  [00:22:55] T: Yeah. Understanding colleagues, they talk about how tools are
  like an extension of your arm, which I guess is an extension of your mind.
  There is definitely an adjustment period before that, where you had to get
  used to the tool. At that point, it feels very foreign. I feel like now, it’s
  at the point where Vetur has become a part of your body. That’s just weird.
  Now, you can think of new possibilities maybe.


  [00:23:20] PW: Yeah, I think so. I’m definitely looking for new ways to make
  Vetur better. I think, I first have to get some of the basic stuff right. For
  now, I sell the performance and can get it to a much better stage. I felt for
  some of the features, so for them for being able to rename are probably with
  certain stuff. That’s something I really want to get done, but I never had
  time to finish.


  Just to give you context, now let’s say you have a pattern component that has
  a type property and this I’ll type something like a screen and you want to
  make it something else. Then basically, after I change that, I think that
  there would be a lot of errors in your co-application, because there are
  probably a 100 places that used that pattern. Then they’re not updated. You
  had to go through them manually and then there’s no way to do that.


  For example, I wanted to rename where you can just say, I want to rename this
  type to something else. Then after you pressed that, it opted everything on
  your code base. Yeah, those are the kinds of things that I am also looking
  for. I think, what I want to do is that although I want to push Vetur towards
  a foundry to a lot of the lot casing, so helping people to share about their
  results. I also want to make that really solid for the people who uses as a
  driver, because I know a lot of people are like, rely on Vetur in their work.
  I don’t really want those people down.


  [00:24:41] BH: That’s a wrap for this episode. Tune in next week when we chat
  about Pine’s process for coming up with new ideas on how to learn new things.


  [END OF PART 1]


  [PART 2]


  [00:24:49] BH: Welcome back to part 2 of our discussion with Pine Wu, creator
  of the beloved extension Vetur, where are joined by panelist Ari Clark, Tessa
  and myself. Let’s kick it off.


  [00:25:00] T: I was wondering how many language do you know, both programming
  languages and talking languages.


  [00:25:08] AC: I was also very curious about that.


  [00:25:11] PW: Okay. I speak Chinese. Of course, I’m born in China. I speak
  English, because I’m half English. Yeah, infrastructure glitch. I speak a
  little bit German. I only learn it for a year when I was in college, but I
  spend a year to learning Japanese. I think I’m pretty fluent in Japanese when
  I go to Japan and have daily conversations with people. Even make some jokes.


  [00:25:35] BH: That’s when you know you’re actually good at a language, I just
  realized. When you can joke in a language, that’s the thing.


  [00:25:41] T: I mean, to be fair, people laugh at me when I speak Japanese,
  but I don’t think it’s for the same reason that they laugh at Pine.


  [00:25:52] PW: Okay. Yeah. Sure. I think, learning languages by itself already
  gives me a lot of ideas, because basically, the same things. Some things are
  really hard to translate across languages. I think knowing how other people
  think and knowing how other people respond to yourself, to where your – it
  gives me a lot of ideas, because basically, what I want to do is that I want
  to create tools that have accommodate people from different culture, people
  from different origin, people with different beliefs and the way they’re
  thinking.


  Yeah, learning languages already gave me a lot of that. Recently for speak,
  programming languages, I think I am mostly doing JavaScript, typescript.
  Recently, I’m recently, I’m trying to learn Racket. It’s at least a
  descendant. I don’t know. I like the language. I don’t know why, but I always
  wanted to start learning this.


  There was a very famous cold structure and the interpretation computer
  programs and I really much enjoy that. I felt in modern days, one of the most
  descent of list is Racket. I’m just trying to learn it. The other reason I’m
  learning Racket is that there is a tool called Pollen, written by Matthew
  Butterick He was a guy who wrote Build for Racket and also, a guy for
  Typography for Lawyers or things like that. I like his writing and I like the
  way that he builds a lot of the web stuff.


  I think, because of Pollen, I really want to learn. I should have explained
  pollen. A pollen is a static site generator, but it’s downplayed. It has
  drastically pretty different from all the other static site generators. Well,
  I found that’s a cream of each static site generator. Anyway, I like pollen,
  so I try to learn Racket to be able to hack on pollen.


  [00:27:36] BH: I have to ask, Pine, one of the challenges I think developers
  always have is there is the part of you that want to build things and then
  there’s part of you that wants to learn and grow. Clearly, learning is a big
  priority to you. Clearly, you also built tooling that’s super useful to a lot
  of people. Do you have a ratio that you try to strike with your time, where
  you’re like, “I want to devote at least half my time to R&D every week”? Or
  how do you strike that balance between learning, but also, still doing things
  and applying those skills?


  [00:28:07] PW: It’s very hard to answer. I think there are two kind of aspect
  to it. The sure thing that I don’t really think that I learn by just learning.
  I learn by doing. I try to do projects. While I’m doing projects, I’m trying
  to learn. For them both, I was building side projects helps me manage some of
  my things. I’m trying to build a server set component in Golang, because I
  have always thought about learning Golang and I found the best way to do that
  is start a project set.


  I don’t really particularly try to strike a balance between one or two. I just
  try to do both together. I learn while I’m doing, so I would try to start new
  projects that helps me learn. Recently, one of the recent examples is I did a
  sponsor map, basically using GraphQL to pull all my sponsor’s data and their
  locations and then try to pull them together on mapbox map. I think there are
  lot of things I learned along the way, like how to do github actions, so that
  you can pull some data and transform them into a typescript file that type
  checks with everybody else. Then how do you do mapbox mapping a little bit.


  Yeah, those are just things I have never tried before. Each time I start a new
  project, I would try to use that as an example trinity to learn new things. I
  think that’s the best way for me to learn, because in our chance creating the
  doc, they were never done.


  [00:29:32] BH: Excellent points.


  [00:29:33] PW: Another aspect you would use that is that a simple learning,
  what I meant by learning is that I usually try to learn outside the realm of
  computer science and programming. For example, some of the books I am reading.
  Now they’re more art or design, or about philosophy. I think from those books
  I’d get most of my ideas. I do think I like to branch out from programming,
  because about programming self is naturally – that interest then to me.


  For example, for programming, certain people enjoy and say, “Okay. I will
  create the most minimal operating system that’s based on C that has not really
  tactile interface.” Some people are going to say, “Okay. I enjoy creating the
  fastest database that can read millions of records per second.” I thought,
  those are one parts of programming. There are people who are interested in
  building large apps in programming.


  For me, what I’m most interested in is about how programming relates to all
  other disciplines in our life and how programming relates to the society.
  Those are the parts that I’m trying to explore. I would rather sign up for a
  course in sociology or philosophy or design, rather than sign up a course in
  programming. That’s how I learn and try to improve my ways of thinking.


  While I learn, I don’t really try to learn too much programming. I just use it
  as a tool to execute my ideas. I don’t try to proactively learn that much. I
  just try to craft certain tools, so to advance my projects. That’s it.


  [00:31:07] BH: Yeah. I love that mental model so much. There’s that cliché
  from Steve Jobs that talks about connecting dots in your life. I think when it
  comes to innovation, a lot of times, we forget it’s easy to like, to your
  point of trying to study something deeply to innovate, but a lot of times,
  innovation is really just borrowing ideas from other fields and just bringing
  them into a field that’s never thought of it that way before.


  [00:31:27] PW: Sure. I’m jumping on that, because that’s also a speech I
  really like. There is a point that I really want to point out, because I think
  – our work is I can relate to this best, because I think both would be a lot
  of data. As in part of learning is learning to innovate and to get new ideas.
  Part of it is trying to understand the different perspective. I think, what is
  pleasuring for people for enough field of design that have eyes that can see
  things, that other people cannot really do.


  I think, you can train this after too. I think that’s really important to
  programmers, because I think a lot of people, they’re like accustomed to
  things and start on ways that they are not really able to see things other
  ways. I think for example, I like that speech, because I think that was some
  of my initial front to learn typography, because I felt that was something
  that’s most invisible to a lot of people. That’s actually what a lot of growth
  here. It’s almost like, the moment you’re going to a coffee shop, you know if
  you aren’t to stay here for a whole afternoon. It’s all those details that
  matters to you, but those are invisible and those are really hard to talk
  about.


  Making those things right, just makes everything better. If found like, you
  know like to me as in Apple, I track a lot of the greatest designers to use
  this hardware and software, because it has paid the most of the attention to
  the details in its design. I felt that has resonated with a lot of people.
  Although they might note explicitly, saying that oh, just because of that
  rounded corner that I’m attracted to those Mac. I do think, we perceive those
  things and we react to those things.


  I think for me, other than learning to innovate on new ideas, I also want to
  learn to be able to see certain things that people of other disciplines can
  also see. Well, that’s one of the reason I’m learning to try to go with color.
  That is really hard for me.


  [00:33:28] T: In tech, we talk a lot about Dunning-Kruger, this idea that the
  less experience you have, the less you can see your shortcomings. The art
  world, I’ve heard it called the eye by YouTuber [inaudible 00:33:41]. I think
  the idea there is just, the reason you feel – you get worse the better you get
  is because your eye can recognize and take in more information and you have
  more experience to evaluate and analyze what you see. I think that probably
  learning to expand your vision and fields beyond programming is powerful for
  that reason as well.


  I don’t think it’s an odd opinion to hold, but I do think it’s one that we
  don’t hear that often in tech. I’m curious, coming at it from the other angle,
  if you could talk about what got you into programming.


  [00:34:20] PW: Yeah. To be honest, I really hated programming when I was in
  college.


  [00:34:24] AC: Me too.


  [00:34:26] PW: Okay. I remember that side, because technically when I was in
  my sophomore year, I was saying, “Okay. What are the courses I’m going to take
  next? Okay, operating systems; sounds interesting, but seems boring.
  Algorithms. Okay, definitely boring. Then computer region. Oh, no. I don’t
  know.” I don’t really want to spend so much time studying that’s medical
  algorithms.


  I was like, okay, this interests me. In my sophomore year, I was like,
  thinking computer science has so many requirements, so I’ll just switch major.
  I switched info science major, which has 10 courses less than computer science
  major, so that I can take other courses. Some of the courses I’ve taken are, I
  think, philosophy and photography and architecture and the region of art for
  visual arts. I have taken courses in traditional Japanese Buddhism. I think,
  those really opened my eyes to different disciplines and areas.


  I think that enriched me so much, even after I graduated. I never regretted
  taking a step to get out of my comfort zone and trying to learn a little bit
  in other areas. Yeah, that’s how I started computer science, because I really
  hated that, so I tried to branch out to other fields and then I tried to
  sometimes build websites for other people, because those people don’t really
  know much about programming. Some people might say, “Oh, that’s unorthodox
  start,” but that’s how I just started. I started by not really liking
  computers. Computer science is too much. I started by liking other fields.


  [00:36:02] T: Wait, wait, wait. I feel like we missed a step here. Did you
  just wake up one day, or the movie of life started and you’re like, “I’m a
  computer science student”? How did you get there?


  [00:36:14] PW: I don’t know. For example, I think I read a lot because at that
  time, I was thinking about yeah, not continuing my college because computer
  science is too boring. I don’t really like learning in the class. Then one
  day, I think I was reading this as by program. He was writing hackers and
  painters. I think that has a huge influence on me, basically. Okay, structure
  interpretation, computer programmers. It talks a little bit about why computer
  science is a misnomer, because it’s very little about science. It’s more about
  art.


  Then he was specifically talking about yeah, there are certain passes where
  you can grow up to be more like a mathematician, or physicist, or yeah, other
  parties where you can field other people. Then it’s also with essay that
  hackers and painters, there are people who does like to hack and to realize
  their ideas with programming. That fits me much better than yeah, a
  traditional programmer. I just say, “Okay. I have the choice in my life. I can
  choose whatever I’m interested to learn.” Would I choose programming, or would
  I choose to do something else that I really like?


  I think the jobs also said something like, if you wake up in the morning and
  then look at the mirror and then you started as you were thinking you’re doing
  the wrong things, then you should probably think now outside of that set.
  Okay. I’ll let that speak up. Give it a try. It has worked out. Initially, I
  was really afraid, because I was worried I would not get a job, because I
  don’t really have a proper computer science degree or stuff. Yeah. I got the
  job.


  [00:37:51] T: I mean, did you like programming before that? Or why did you
  decide to enter into a degree initially? Because it must have been a tough
  choice to decide to –


  [00:38:00] PW: Oh, no. I think basically, I first went to that, because it is
  the highest paid.


  [00:38:05] AC: You’re being smart.


  [00:38:07] BH: This would be valid. Valid reason.


  [00:38:11] PW: It’s the most well-paid major you can take in your college.
  It’s something that I don’t hate. I think, my relationship with programming is
  similar to my relationship with math. I used to be really good at math in my
  junior too. I was in some of the local Olympics. I felt like I don’t like
  math, but I like to use math as a way to realize my ideas. I felt programming
  is the same thing.


  Yeah, I did not really enjoy in programming, but after graduation, I wanted to
  be independent. I want to give myself a life and everything has started after
  that, so I said, “Okay. I would just learn this and it’s a nice skill to
  have.” Yeah, so I just went with that.


  Now looking back, I felt really grateful, because I felt a lot of the trend
  using as aside, their prompt ID by code and by coding and by information. I
  felt yeah, I learned the right route, because I felt people from all other
  disciplines, they want to learn programming. Now I have that advantage of
  having done programming and branching out to other field. I have the knowledge
  and I have the skill to build. I am glad I made a choice, but it was a hard
  choice for me.


  [00:39:25] BH: We are all very glad you made that choice too.


  [00:39:28] T: I don’t know if anybody on this show has heard, but I think a
  new version of Vue is coming out soon, or came out kind of. Pine, can you talk
  a bit how that affects your plans, maybe a bit more about the work you’ve been
  doing in typescript?


  [00:39:46] PW: Basically, for Vue3, I would see more been in early discussions
  about our class-based component API. Although, that didn’t really go through.
  Then I really spent a lot of time arguing that it shouldn’t be included. That
  was how I stared getting involved in Vue3. Before that, I didn’t really look
  at Vue 3 properly. I think that was a year and a half ago.


  Yeah, after that, mostly, I think to be honest, I only did the really little
  support of Vue3, because for Vue3, you already explored as the definition from
  the original Vue file. I can just use the same logic of handling Vue2 as – I
  can’t support Vue3 in the same way that I supported Vue2 with very little
  changes. The aligned changes are literally that highlights that I can’t
  support Vue3. Some of the things that I’m trying to support are – for example,
  there is a new RFD called script setup. If you are drafting here, reduce the
  amount of code that you need to write to setup our component.


  I think that’s super useful and I really want to support that. For those
  people who don’t know, so basically, let’s say, yeah, Vue in go file
  components, you can say explore default and then you can export a object
  through. It just out playing object. It’s not wrapped by Vue. Then in the Vue
  loader, Vue loader would wrap that in a Vue code. Basically, what Vetur does
  is that Vetur wraps that object literal by Vue ASD transformation. Basically,
  just making task to look at this code and basically, cheat on task great to
  say, “Okay. This is not object throughout. This is as a Vue.extendcar.” The
  make transcript will believe that and they’re not really keeping up on parting
  at the fail and try to offer all the language feature that it does, such as
  auto-completion and diagnostic errors.


  That’s how Vetur works under the hood. For Vue, it’s really basically, we just
  change the different wrapper, because Vue2 is vue.extend. Vue3 is different
  component. Yeah, but that’s basically all the changes I need to do for in
  Vue3.


  [00:41:47] BH: Yeah, that’s incredible, to think that even though Vue3 has
  been rewritten basically from the ground up with typescript, that with five
  lines of code you can basically effectively support both. This goes to show
  how incredible, like you said, the tooling when written well can really go a
  long way to enable the idea. We are looking forward to enhance feature support
  for sure, for Vue3.


  [00:42:09] PW: I think basically, because it’s really, it’s adopted to support
  HMR risk languages. I think scout is in my infrastructure to support scout in
  typescript. I think there was a language by eBay and then they were a
  framework by eBay and there are also is in my tooling. I think for Angular,
  they were pouring some of my ideas to do on type-checking.


  I don’t know. It has helped other people to support their languages. Yeah, I
  found that’s okay. I am glad to push the web forward for better editor support
  for all the components, or for all the frameworks, basically.


  [00:42:44] BH: Yeah. Anything to push web forward for sure. Well with that, I
  think we can start wrapping up for this episode. Pine, so if people want to
  find you on the Internet of things, where could they find you?


  [00:42:55] PW: I think I’m mostly on Twitter. I’m almost sometimes active on
  Twitter, although I try to stay from Twitter a little bit, because I’m
  thinking. Yeah, I try to follow people who are doing art or photography, but
  not really many people doing programming and politics. Yeah, sorry about that,
  but there are just so many things that I can’t handle. I don’t really use
  Twitter that much. Sometimes I do use that to announce Twitter features.


  I also have a blog. It’s blog.matsu.io. Matsu stand for pine in Japanese, by
  the way. That’s why I got the matsu.io domain. Yeah, so that’s where you can
  find me. You can also send me e-mails. I enjoy reading people’s e-mails. A
  while ago, I received the e-mail from a guy, Lagos in Nigeria. He was talking
  to me how to join Vue in Vetur and I’m like, wow. I never expected that I can
  build something and support people from Africa. I just felt super happy to
  hear that. Do send me e-mails and yeah, happy to talk to you over the
  Internet.


  [00:44:04] BH: Sounds great. Well with that, I think it’s time for us to move
  on to picks. Tessa, would you like to get us started?

  [00:44:11] T: Wow. Okay. I wasn’t expecting to be first. Yeah, so my first
  pick is from this company called Motz. They run a lot of kickstarters and they
  made this thing called the five in one sit-stand desk and it’s basically this
  vinyl-covered piece of board that you can configure into different shapes to
  raise your laptop up off the desk and is like, maybe a good elbow height for
  me. If you needed a daily driver for a standing desk, it probably wouldn’t do
  the job. I think for having something portable that folds flat, it’s pretty
  nice.


  Also, I was helping somebody do some UX research. They mentioned that their
  workbook club really enjoyed this book called The Dance of Anger by Harriet
  Lerner. I’ve been listening to the audio book by Barbara Caruso. In an earlier
  episode, Ben talked about non-violent communication. I think while that book
  certainly has value, if you’re a person who is maybe socialized to put other
  people’s feelings ahead of you, then it’s a bit – the book feels a bit of an
  imbalance read, and so this is the other side of that coin.


  Even though it’s about facing and accepting anger, it’s very calming to listen
  to. Which is good, because I feel like the pandemic has been getting to me
  this month. I’ve been feeling depressed. When I go out for my physical therapy
  appointments, sometimes when I feel really suffocated, I like to just sit in
  the car with the door open and I’m half in the car and half out of the car. I
  don’t feel like exposed, because I’m inside the car. The door is also open, so
  I’m also outdoor. That’s been a nice experience.


  I was sneaking a peak ahead to Pine’s links and one of them reminded me of
  this article I read last year in parametric press, called Unraveling the JPEG.
  It’s about how they’re encoded and how they delete information that supposedly
  we can’t see, to shrink or down-sample the file size. They have this example
  of a cat and they show you how you can edit parts of the encoding one line at
  a time to change the picture, like using text instead of the images. Then my
  final pick, if Pine doesn’t mind me sharing, it is just his photography. I’ve
  seen a couple photos and they’re really nice.


  [00:46:22] PW: Yeah. I would tell her, read the [inaudible 00:46:24]. It looks
  really interesting.


  [00:46:26] T: Yeah. You went over my head, but it’s really cool.


  [00:46:30] BH: Awesome. Ari, what do you have for us this week?

  [00:46:33] AC: I have a ridiculous pick. Maybe it’s more of a useful pick, as
  opposed to my usual, just go watch stuff that will rot your brain. I am
  actually going to pick Renpure’s rosemary mint cleansing conditioner. Some of
  you may be shampooing your hair every day with shampoo. You should stop that.
  It is not good for your hair. Your hair does not like it. Trust me. This is a
  good alternative. If you are one of those people that feel’s need to cleanse
  your hair every day, this is non-foaming and will actually condition your hair
  as it cleans it. Your hair is much happier and shinier and this an over-share,
  but if you’re like me and you happen to have an oily scalp, this actually
  makes it less oily, because you’re not stripping all of its natural oils away,
  so it feels the need to overload them back in. That is my pick.


  [00:47:24] BH: Good pick. Pine, what do you have for us this week?


  [00:47:27] PW: Okay. First, I would just say I would try to probably fill the
  photo grid portfolios and maybe Tessa can link to that.


  [00:47:34] T: Sorry.


  [00:47:36] PW: No worries. No worries. I planned to do that anyways. Yeah, but
  for me, I think I just try to pick the random set of – not really a random set
  of things, but a set of things that I think, I don’t know, because I think if
  you’re to lead this podcast as a message, I think I will leave as a message. I
  try to explore other fields, rather programming and see different ways of
  thinking and doing things in programming.


  I think, my picks are yeah, I felt a lot of them. The first one is basically a
  really inspiring talk by Bret Victor, the same guy I talked before, who did a
  video called Inventing on Principle. His idea was you can create certain
  medias to bring out expressions in people that’s otherwise unthinkable or
  imaginable. I think that’s my [inaudible 00:48:23] good credit tools that
  helps people, if you make certain things. Otherwise, undoable. Yeah. I think
  that just a really inspiring thing. 


  The second thing is a cool thing on the Internet I have seen for a long time.
  It is filled with Vue. I was totally not surprised, but they’re all the cool
  project I did with Vue. If you open pull set, I think, I don’t know, yeah,
  everybody is stuck inside in COVID, because of COVID-19 and poolside is the
  best for people who are indoors. Tessa, give it a try as you will love it
  hopefully. It’s just so amazing.


  I found that place a lot of kind of music and some graphics that makes you
  feel you’re on a beach. I’m amazed how they do that, but they were able to do
  that. It’s amazing to me. The third one is about a guy who is doing generative
  art and how he was trying to use programming to draw what the color. I think
  that’s a very unorthodox way of doing programming. Then I think what he was
  able to do is pretty cool. Yeah, I don’t know. I felt programming can also be
  used in these ways. Yeah, maybe give it a look and if you like it. First, I
  failed to answer. The first one is a community and that they also host a lot
  of podcasts and I think those are podcasts that I really enjoy listening
  today.


  [00:49:45] T: Besides ours, right?


  [00:49:48] PW: Yeah. It’s a very kind of like, academic podcast. Basically, it
  talks about how a lot of people are thinking, oh, what could that future
  program could be? Yeah, something they try to do. Of course, listening to this
  podcast as well. Otherwise, you couldn’t find the other ones.


  The media radar is something that I really recently, I really enjoyed that
  book. It’s basically talking about all these new media that happened because
  of coding and the Internet and programming and how they shape our lives. If
  you’re interested to points that talk about how technology shape people’s
  lives, how you can create those to give people different ways of thinking, I
  think it would be a great read. I really enjoyed that. That’s my five picks.
  It’s a lot.


  [00:50:35] BH: By the way, I had a check on poolside.fm. It is amazing. Oh, my
  gosh.


  [00:50:43] PW: It is legit. Yeah. I know everybody would love it. That’s why
  I’m putting it here. To build a VCO, go to the inspector tool and look at it.
  You’ll see Vue over there. That’s one of the things I like, because a lot of
  people use Vue for creativity projects. Sometimes I just love to see
  creativity projects backed by Vue. I felt certain people in Vue community,
  they have a place on this that’s not really found in other communities. Yeah,
  I do enjoy seeing that field by Vue.


  [00:51:13] BH: That’s great.


  [00:51:14] T: Yeah. I wish we were playful too. I don’t know if you knew this,
  we have a no fun picks allowed rule.


  [00:51:20] PW: Oh, okay.


  [00:51:22] T: She’s telling that.


  [00:51:25] AC: It’s basically all we do.


  [00:51:28] BH: Cool. With that, for my pick, I have just the one pick.


  [00:51:32] T: Is it a fun one?


  [00:51:33] BH: To me, it’s fun.


  [00:51:34] AC: It’s not fun.


  [00:51:36] T: That’s what I heard.


  [00:51:38] BH: My one pick for this episode is Pine’s GitHub sponsor. As we
  have heard, Pine does a lot of incredible for the Vue community. If you or
  company can find a new way to sponsor him, a 100% I totally would visit that
  as my pick. Check out GitHub sponsor and yeah, that is my pick, because Pine
  is awesome and these are all the sponsors possible.


  [00:52:02] PW: Yeah. Thank you so much. I hope one day I can back on a
  community and they try to – are able to create on that sorts, yeah
  indefinitely. Yeah, I think I try to strike out a good balance of probably
  spend half of my time doing open source and trying to – or are living by that.
  I don’t really living, [inaudible 00:52:19]. I try to live very affordably. I
  don’t know. I think, I’m really having these sponsors, because it’s almost
  fair in that your work and supported by people over the whole world. You have
  a real connection with them and I really like that feeling. Yeah, if you’re
  sponsoring me, thank you so much. Yeah, I see Ben is sponsoring me. Thank you.


  [00:52:45] BH: Well, with that, thank you so much, Pine, for joining us in
  this episode. It’s been a absolute delight. Hopefully, everyone, yeah, that’s
  it for this week’s episode. Thanks everyone for listening. Until next time,
  enjoy the Vue.


  [00:53:00] T: We’re just trying to shoot ever, Ben.


  [00:53:03] AC: Guys, no. Guys, no.


  [END]
---
