---
episode-number: 56
episode-title: >-
  Breaking Vues: v-bind
date-published: 2021-04-05T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/enjoy-the-vue-cover-ep-12.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/aa3505a9-43ff-49ab-8e2f-cbe45ac5f97e.mp3
picks:
  - person: Alex Riviere
    picks:
      - title: SVG Animations by Sarah Drasner
        website: >-
          https://www.amazon.com/SVG-Animations-Implementations-Responsive-Animation/dp/1491939702
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - title: Mermaid Hair Oil
        website: 'https://captainblankenship.com/products/mermaid-hair-oil'
      - title: XeraCalm A.D
        website: 'https://www.aveneusa.com/xeracalm-lipid-replenishing-cream'
      - title: >-
          Draw Stronger: Self-Care for Cartoonists & Visual Artists, Kriota
          Willberg
        website: >-
          https://bookshop.org/books/draw-stronger-self-care-for-cartoonists-and-other-visual-artists/9781941250235
shownotes: >-
  ## Overview

  In Vue, the v-bind directive is used to dynamically swap out the values of
  attributes. Today’s episode is a deep dive into v-binds and how you can best
  use them. After exploring v-bind use cases, we chat about when and where you
  should avoid writing v-bind in shorthand, along with how base components fit
  into the coding process. As our conversation deepens, we touch declarative
  code before looking at the differences in how v-binding functions in Vue 2 and
  Vue 3. Linked to this, we explore preferences when it comes to the order of
  attributes and debate the merit of being able to add comments in Vue. Later,
  we reflect on the iterative nature of software development and why you should
  always check the docs for design changes. We round off another episode with
  our picks of the week!


  ## Tweetables:

  - “Declarative code is best when you write it out and it's easy for people to
  follow. When written as shorthand, v-bind can obfuscate that.” —
  @EnjoyTheVueCast [0:12:21]

  - “I’m not used to a lot of decision-making being yielded to the template. So
  it's surprising to me that something like the order of attributes would be
  something that the template is responsible for.” — @EnjoyTheVueCast [0:23:34]

  - “Software is an iterative process. Always check the docs for the latest
  updates because sometimes we are human when we make these design decisions.” —
  @EnjoyTheVueCast [0:30:00]


  Ben's picks:

  - [Blinkist](https://www.blinkist.com/)

  - [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/)

  - [Night Owl VS
  Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=sdras.night-owl)


  ## Resources Mentioned in Today’s Episode:

  - [v-bind Merge Behavior](https://v3.vuejs.org/guide/migration/v-bind.html#frontmatter-title)
  
  - [RFC: v-bind merge strategy modifier](https://github.com/vuejs/rfcs/pull/215)

transcript: >
  EPISODE 56


  [INTRODUCTION]


  [00:00:00] AR: This episode is brought to you by Ionic. For more information,
  please see ionicframework.com/vue. 


  [EPISODE]


  [00:00:20] AR: Hey, everybody, and welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I’m Alex. Today
  on our panel, we have Ari. 


  [00:00:27] AC: Hello. 


  [00:00:28] AR: Tessa. 


  [00:00:29] T: Hi. 


  [00:00:30] AR: Ben. 


  [00:00:31] BH: Hello. 


  [00:00:32] AR: And that's everybody. Hey, everybody. 


  [00:00:37] T: Hi. 


  [00:00:38] AR: Hi. Today, I have a question because I do that. I have
  questions. Sometimes, I’m kind of embarrassed about it but I’m going to ask.
  Could somebody explain to me a little bit about v-bind? Ben?


  [00:00:54] BH: All right. I’ll kick it off. For those who are new to the Vue
  ecosystem, v-bind refers to a directive that's used in Vue. So if you're — I’m
  looking at Vue code base and you're looking at — in the HTML attributes, you
  see the, ‘v-’. Those are directives, basically special view magic, and the
  v-bind allows you to, based on my understanding, basically dynamically swap
  out values of the attributes. An example might be if you have an image with
  like a static path, for example, then that would normally just be source
  equals your double quote and then the path of your URL. But there are times
  when you want to use JavaScript to swap that out, and so v-bind tells Vue,
  “Hey. For this attribute, you do v-bind:src,” for example. Evaluate what's in
  here and swap it out using JavaScript for whatever you want it to be. 


  [00:01:40] AR: Cool. Okay, that kind of makes sense. Ari, do you have anything
  that you can maybe add to that at all?


  [00:01:46] AC: Yeah. I guess like it's sort of funny because, like, when I
  think about v-bind, I immediately just think about, “Oh, that's how you pass
  props in.” But I’m like, “Oh, that's right. You can also dynamically assign
  attributes. That is a thing, isn't it?” Yeah. I think of it more as passing
  data down to a child component but, nope, absolutely. It’s how you bind any
  piece of reactive information from your component into a template. 


  [00:02:16] AR: Cool. Tessa, you have a look on your face? Do you have anything
  else that you have thoughts on that at all?


  [00:02:22] T: I’m tempted to ask what look it was. But, no, not really. I
  mean, I think like generally both with v-bind and v-on, you're like, “I’m
  passing in a JavaScript expression or something that I want to evaluate,
  rather than being taken at face value.” 


  [00:02:38] AC: I like that explanation better than mine. 


  [00:02:41] AR: That makes a lot of sense. Cool. What else do we want to talk
  about?


  [00:02:45] T: Well, how do you use v-binds for those of you who have used it
  before?


  [00:02:50] BH: Yeah. Alex, what is the most common scenario you tend to use
  v-bind for?


  [00:02:53] AR: Well, now that you've explained to me what it is, I think one
  of the places that I use v-bind the most is applying values to an input and
  saying, “Hey, here's the value of the input.” It’ll be able to see if I update
  it in my component that the input updates as well. Ari, how do you use v-bind?


  [00:03:15] AC: Well, like I said, most often to pass data from a parent to a
  child, but I’ve definitely also used it for dynamic links and things like that
  and sometimes dynamic styles. 


  [00:03:32] BH: Totally legit. 


  [00:03:34] AR: That sounds super fancy. Tessa, how do you use v-bind?


  [00:03:38] T: I think it's funny because when you first ask the question like,
  “What do you all think of v-bind,” I realized that a lot of times, just not in
  practice. But in my mind, when I’m thinking about it, I always conflate v-bind
  and v-model because it has ‘bind’ in the name. In my head, I’m always like,
  “Oh. Vue has two-way binding.” Then v-bind, I’m like, “Bam.” 


  But in practice, the way I use v-bind a lot of the time is if I want to use a
  value in the template but I know that I want to change it in the foreseeable
  future. If I have a counter for example and it's at one but I know that I want
  to make it two. Or if I have something but I know that I want to change it
  with a method, that's when I would use v-bind. Basically, if I can't depend on
  something to stay constant, v-bind comes into play. 


  [00:04:21] AC: I think the real question though is, when you guys are actually
  using v-bind, do you write out v-bind or do you use colon?


  [00:04:30] T: Oh, my gosh. Never, never. 


  [00:04:32] BH: Depends. 


  [00:04:34] AC: Ew. No, I’m just kidding. It does depend. There are certain
  scenarios in which you really can't use the colon. 


  [00:04:40] T: Yeah. Like binding to add in. 


  [00:04:41] BH: Yes. Just one scenario in particular. 


  [00:04:43] T: Just give me colon equals dollar sign adders, Ben. Make it
  happen. 


  [00:04:49] AR: I want the walrus operator in Vue so that we can —


  [00:04:52] T: I want a colon equals ligature. 


  [00:04:53] AR: Two eyes and a pair of teeth, and so it's a walrus operator. 


  [00:04:58] AC: I got it, yeah. I was like, “Wait, walrus operator.” But then
  you explained the teeth. I was like, “Oh. Equal sign and teeth. Got it.” 


  [00:05:05] AR: Yeah. 


  [00:05:05] T: It’s going to be like a regular equal sign but slightly longer.
  It'll be beautiful. 


  [00:05:11] BH: Speaking of, so we mentioned about the shorthand. It looks like
  some of you recognize that there is a limitation on the shorthand. Alex, what
  is the limitation of using shorthand? Is there —


  What's the scenario with v-bind where you need to actually write it out,
  rather than use the colon?


  [00:05:27] AR: The place where you really need to write it out is when you are
  taking several things that are pieces of data that you want to bind to
  attributes or props or what have you. And you want to pass that entire object
  in and say, “Take this object of things and apply them as attributes to this
  element or component.” In that case, you would use v-bind equals. Then the
  object that you want, which allows us to do things like passing attributes
  from a parent component down through to something inside of a child component.
  Or if you have multiple, like, you have class and style and something else,
  you can say, “Here’s an object with all of these things. Go put them on this
  other thing.” Vue will understand, “All right, I will watch this entire object
  and use that instead.” 


  [00:06:27] BH: If I’m hearing you correctly, it sounds like v-bind as the
  longhand is good for when you want to bind multiple properties using a single
  object, rather than individually declaring each one as its own attribute.


  [00:06:41] AR: Yeah. That's probably a smarter way of putting it. 


  [00:06:43] BH: I don't know it’s smarter. It’s just another way of looking at
  it.


  [00:06:47] AC: I think it's important that we note that when we are saying
  object, we mean object literal, as in if there are curly braces involved. Not
  just like if you're passing a prop that happens to be of the type object. 


  [00:07:01] T: Well, I mean —


  [00:07:02] BH: Good clarification. 


  [00:07:03] T: Nothing in JavaScript is an object, except object literals,
  right?


  [00:07:08] AR: We don't have time to discuss that today, Tessa. 


  [00:07:10] T: But, yeah, I think it's easy to forget or not have to pay mind
  to when you use v-binds the more common way, which is like either v-binds
  colon the name of your variable — or just colon and the name of your variable.
  That's essentially saying like, “Here's a key in that object, and I’m going to
  pass in the value after the equal sign.” Versus v-bind equals where you're
  like, “I’m going to just pass you the whole collection of all the things that
  I could have passed individually but I don't want to.” 


  [00:07:38] BH: Do you all have a preference as far as when you use the v-bind
  equals versus declaring each attribute individually?


  [00:07:45] AC: 99% of the time, I will use the shorthand just because I like
  the way it looks. Having it on each line like very clearly marked out what is
  being passed in. But, yeah, that's really more of a visual preference than
  anything. I mean, just object destructure but no.  


  [00:08:08] BH: I mean, I think from a DX perspective, and so for those not
  familiar with the acronym Developer Experience, like when you obfuscate the
  attributes like v-bind equals, some object that you're calculating in the
  script, that does make it harder for people to figure out what exactly goes in
  here. Because it does seem like anything could be in there. I think to your
  argument, there actually is a valid reason to actually be declarative as much
  as humanly possible, so you don't have to hunt on multiple places for what's
  going — what’s getting passed down. 


  [00:08:35] T: I mean, I think also a lot of times the things that we bind to
  might be like it might be in the data option. It might be in the computed
  option. It might be in the method option if you're passing methods for some
  reason as a prop or something. I don't know. To like make a new arbitrary
  object to hold all those things just so you only have to pass one thing, maybe
  some people like it. It puts them at ease. But in terms of, like, the
  experience of working with that component, I don't know that it adds
  anything. 


  But to the other way of using it where you're saying v-bind equals in a bunch
  of stuff, generally I’ll do that if I have to pass the same set of data
  through a series of components. If I have some kind of like generic button
  component and I want to pass everything on to the button component but it has
  some kind of wrapper around it or something or if I had to go through multiple
  generations of components passing down the same group of data that I’m not
  really going to alter, then those are situations where I find myself using
  v-bind equals some object, usually dollar sign adders. 


  [00:09:36] BH: What about you, Alex?


  [00:09:37] AR: I tend to use the v-bind shorthand with a named attribute most
  of the time. The one or two times that I don't do that is typically or where
  I’ve seen that primarily used is if you are making some form of complex
  component. So you have a component that is wrapping a couple of other
  components, and the person using your component that's wrapping those other
  couple of components may want to be able to apply a class to something inside
  of yours. You can give them a prop that says, “Hey. If you give this prop as
  an object, anything that's inside of it will be bound to this other
  component.” That way, you can say, “Hey. You can style this entire thing or
  you can just style this one component. You can style this other component, but
  it's all inside of this one big component.” 


  I tend not to use it as this is how I’m defining this component. It's more of
  a — “I have a base component that is going to get used everywhere.” Maybe
  every once in a while, I want to apply something weird somewhere but for the
  most part use the defaults. The other place that I use it all the time is
  v-bind adders. That is the key place that I just go v-bind is want to just
  pass everything through. 


  [00:11:02] AC: Can you just briefly describe what a base component is?


  [00:11:05] AR: A base component is where you would create a component if
  you're in a larger codebase and you have multiple people — or maybe not
  multiple people. It doesn't matter one way or the other who may be using that
  code base. A base component is a way for you all to agree. If you are going to
  make an input for instance, the input will always be styled with rounded
  borders. If it's a text element, it's going to be styled with rounded borders.
  It's going to have this type of border. It’s going to just sort of have all of
  these sorts of things. 


  As a base component, it allows you to say, “This allows you to always use this
  one when you want an input.” Instead of every single time you define an input,
  you have to apply the right style, apply the right class. It’s all there
  already. When I talk about base components, what I’m really saying is things
  that you set up and then you kind of don't touch. 


  [00:12:04] BH: To also tack onto what Alex was saying, one of the things that
  we talk on the show, we want to try to offer our listeners, is the fact that a
  lot of the techniques we talk about, there are always trade-offs and there are
  always reasons to do something differently. Another example of where it
  doesn't make sense to use a shorthand because, again, like, I think a lot of
  us here on the show agree that usually declarative code is best when you write
  it out and it's easy for people to follow. V-bind, again, as the shorthand can
  obfuscate that. 


  [00:12:28] T: Can you define declarative code?


  [00:12:30] BH: In my mind, when I think of declarative code, it's code that
  you — for me, I usually associate with being easy to understand. So it's just
  like whatever you tell it to do is like the thing. I’m trying a little small
  blank on this. Ari, you want to tap in on how you would describe it?


  [00:12:45] AC: Being very explicit with what's happening, if that means that
  you're being verbose and say, “Yeah, instead of destructuring an object,
  assigning values to individual variables or properties so that it's very clear
  in the code what's happening,” as opposed to say assigning a single variable
  to an expression that chains filter onto a map. 


  [00:13:12] T: Who would do that? It looks like you’re looking at something
  right now. 


  [00:13:17] AC: I mean, I’ve never done that. No, I have done that, just
  because sometimes, like we say, there are always trade-offs. Because sometimes
  I think you can end up confusing the issue more by having more lines of code
  with a bunch of different variable names, trying to be like pieced out step by
  step. It sort of reminds me of like math class in middle school or high school
  where they always said show your work, as opposed to just kind of making the
  steps in your head and not really showing the steps. To me, that sort of
  encapsulates declarative code. 


  [00:13:54] T: Yeah. I think whenever I hear a declarative, I always just
  think, “Oh, that's the one that's not imperative,” but I never can keep the
  two straight. But I feel like it's something. Declarative is like where you
  say what you need or you want. You're like, “I want this button to be blue.”
  Or like, “This button is supposed to be blue,” would be declarative versus
  imperative, unless they got them flipped. It would be more manual. You would
  describe the process by which you would make the button blue. Yeah. That's how
  I see them, but I wasn't sure if that's what you were referring to, Ben. 


  [00:14:24] BH: Yeah. I know that it's a little different from the traditional
  like imperative-declarative programming paradigms that I think most people
  refer to. I feel like in these discussions I’ve had, it's come to be
  associated a bit with, also, to Ari’s point, like how you name variables and
  these sort of things. There's this bit of like a style to it and less about
  like whether or not you're being explicit of, to your point, how to make a
  button blue versus whether you want the button to be blue. 


  Most of us, it seems clearly prefer the shorthand with individually named
  attributes. But the one scenario where you would actually create more
  confusion is where you're actually using a dynamic component. If you have a
  component that says going to switch out the different layouts inside of a
  feed, for example, like it'll be add some time, it'll be a blog post
  sometimes, maybe a news article sometimes, your requirements for each
  component and the props they need are going to be vastly different. If you try
  to manage that in individual lines, you will definitely confuse the people who
  are maintaining that. So this is where it does make sense to go ahead and
  v-bind a single attribute that is then computed accordingly based on the
  correct component that is being pulled up. 


  [00:15:27] T: Yeah. I guess when I think about that situation, to me it feels
  less so of a, “Do I use v-bind and pass in an object versus the individual key
  situation?” And more, like, I think about like state machines? Or if I have to
  decide to turn on and off five different Boolean switches to determine the
  state of the component, it feels kind of that territory where I’m like, “No,
  it should all be a single thing. You're either that thing or you're not that
  thing.” 


  [00:15:54] AC: The sum of parts rather than the whole. If you just want to
  show like, “Here's all the parts. You do the sum.” Or you can just be like,
  “Here’s what it is.” 


  [00:16:04] T: Yeah. That's a great way to think of it. Yeah. Don't do math,
  kids. You heard it here first. 


  [00:16:14] AC: Yeah. Some of us did plenty of math that we no longer use. So,
  yeah, I appreciate the encouragement to not continue to do math. 


  [00:16:22] T: But I feel like the way that v-bind works in Vue 3, it sounds
  like there may be some changes that could affect applications if you just
  think you can flip it from Vue 2 to Vue 3 without having to fix anything. What
  do we know about these upcoming, or I guess they're already here, these
  breaking changes to v-bind behavior? If only there were someone on the core
  team who —


  [00:16:46] AC: I know. I was just thinking that. 


  [00:16:47] BH: I was going to let someone else say first but I guess I can
  kick off the discussion. 


  [00:16:51] AC: We let you be the voice of authority because technically and
  officially you are. Yeah. 


  [00:16:57] BH: Okay. To be clear, there is one specific v-bind behavior that
  changes. We'll start it off sort of like — let's do this a little bit more
  like a game show a bit. We have a div here, and the div has an explicitly
  bound ID of red. So div ID equals red. Now, if after the ID I say v-bind
  equals — and I have an object with also an ID in it and I’m going to say blue
  as the value, starting with Vue 2, or at least based on what you understand
  right now, which one should take precedence? The one that was described,
  should it be ID red when it's rendered or ID blue?


  [00:17:36] AR: Let me think about that one for a second. Let me make a sample
  pen here. Hold on. 


  [00:17:44] T: Wait. Are you saying that —


  [00:17:46] AR: Okay, yes. 


  [00:17:47] BH: Cheating. 


  [00:17:48] AR: I’m not cheating. What are you talking about? No, I knew this
  red off the top of my head. It would say if you had an ID of red and then an
  object that is v-bound with an id of blue, it would show red in Vue 2. 


  [00:18:05] BH: What do you think, Ari?


  [00:18:06] AC: I mean, I already know the answer is ID equals red because I
  have to be looking at the documentation. 


  [00:18:14] AR: I could’ve done that. 


  [00:18:14] AC: We are totally taking this straight from the docs. 


  [00:18:17] BH: Well, I did that intentionally. 


  [00:18:19] T: Yeah. I think it —


  [00:18:20] AC: — That way, if you want to go back and look at it, it will be
  exactly what we just described. 


  [00:18:26] BH: So I guess, Tessa, since you didn't get the chance to answer,
  why is it that in Vue 2 it is ID red rather than ID blue?


  [00:18:33] T: Oh, I see. Tessa, since you didn't get the chance to weigh in,
  here's a way harder question for you. I don't know. To me, it would be nice if
  it were blue because then I feel like — that's kind of feels in line with CSS
  where I feel like something dynamic. The idea there is that you would get the
  data later, so it makes sense that the latest data would override. But at the
  same time, I’ve run into issues where it's like the inline thing is the thing.
  That makes sense to me as well because, like, when it comes to CSS generally,
  one of the hardest things to override is when you have an attribute directly
  on the DOM element, which that is kind of a corollary for. I would guess it's
  something — an attempt to like mimic that expectation. But, I mean, really who
  knows. Maybe Evan had [inaudible 00:19:18] had an issue, and so he randomly
  decided it. 


  [00:19:21] BH: That's a wonderful explanation. That's a wonderful explanation
  of the two paradigms that govern it. To Tessa’s point, yes, in Vue 2, Alex is
  right. It will render out red because —


  [00:19:33] T: Well, Alex’s CodePen is right. 


  [00:19:38] BH: Fair enough. Fair enough. Let's give credit where credit is
  due. But Alex did type it into the CodePen. CodePen did not know inherently
  this answer or at least would not have revealed itself without Alex's magic
  typing. But to test this point, at least in the two-point — or not two-point.
  Just like Vue 2 syntax, yes, explicitly defined on the element ID would take
  precedence over the v-bound ID blue, even though it comes later in as far as
  the order of attributes. But this is changing in Vue 3, so I’m going to toss
  the ball to Ari. Ari, what's changing in Vue 3?


  [00:20:15] AC: In Vue 3, it will behave more like Tessa's first musing that
  down the cascade should win. So whatever is declared last in the attributes
  will win. 


  [00:20:28] BH: In the scenario we gave, it will be —


  [00:20:31] AC: Blue. 


  [00:20:31] BH: It will be blue. 


  [00:20:33] AC: Just to reiterate, we said div ID equals red and v-bind equals
  ID blue, because I would have forgotten by now what we said. 


  [00:20:46] BH: Just to reinforce it one more time as we have in the docs, in
  the event now, we flip it. It has nothing to do with whether it's v-bind or
  not. If it's div v-bind ID blue and then an explicitly stated ID red because
  ID red is the last one, it will then be red. 


  [00:21:01] T: Oh, no. 


  [00:21:02] BH: Order of operation is back to math. 


  [00:21:04] T: It's based on the order of the attributes but it's not based on
  the order of the attributes in Vue 2. 


  [00:21:09] BH: Correct. 


  [00:21:10] T: That scares me. I don't know if I like that. 


  [00:21:12] AC: Why does that scare you?


  [00:21:13] T: Well, because like so many times I’ll —


  [00:21:15] AC: Are you trying to think of, like, all the codes you wrote that
  might break now?


  [00:21:18] T: I mean, theoretically a lot of times there wouldn't be a reason
  for it to conflict because this situation like our contrived one, I mean, it's
  contrived, so I can't think of a good reason why one would do that. But a lot
  of times, I’ll use an extension in my IDE to order all the attributes
  alphabetically, automatically. And then ESLint and the style guide, depending
  on your settings. Or if you check the style guide, you generally put the
  elements in a certain order where v-bind comes first. I guess, I mean,
  theoretically maybe you would just get into a pattern of like whatever comes
  later would override. But I don't think that that's something that I would
  expect just looking at the template initially. 


  [00:21:59] AC: It’s an excellent point. 


  [00:22:00] BH: There’s something to be said that with the tooling with Vue 3,
  it's possible that we should be probably being — we should either change the
  rules, for example, and not automatically sending people's v-bind call it up.
  Because as far as like people thinking, like, where would this actually happen
  is probably when you're trying to merge attributes together. If you just can
  imagine, you can't. It’s not something where you would explicitly set out to
  have multiple ones that are the same. It's just to Ari, Alex, or Tessa’s
  point, you're bringing in a bunch of parent attributes and you're just sort of
  spreading them on to the child. Then this is where you might have accidental
  conflicts. Because, if the parent happens to pass on something that's named
  the same exact thing as a child, for example. 


  That’s why, for example, I think this is one of the reasons why we're doing it
  this way is because that way you could probably declare the parent stuff
  first. Then all the child stuff that comes afterward would then override by
  default all the stuff that comes from the parent but —


  [00:22:49] T: I feel like I would always —


  [00:22:50] AC: I’m still with Tessa on this one. 


  [00:22:52] T: — Yeah. I would expect the child to always override the parent,
  similar to like if you have a mix in or like component import. Whatever is in
  the component itself would override those. 


  [BREAK]


  [00:23:01] T: Hey there, Alex. 


  [00:23:03] AR: Hey, Tessa. 


  [00:23:05] T: What's got you so down?


  [00:23:07] AR: I need to write a native mobile app but I’m just a simple Vue
  developer and I don't know how. 


  [00:23:14] T: Well, have you looked at Ionic?


  [00:23:18] AR: The Alanis Morissette song?


  [00:23:22] T: No, silly. Ionic. Ionic is a platform for building mobile apps
  with the web. 


  [00:23:28] AR: Well, what is happening?


  [00:23:30] T: With over 100 components and pre-build animations, Ionic gives
  you building blocks to make awesome apps with ease. 


  [00:23:38] AR: Oh, no. We're trapped in an ad read. 


  [00:23:41] T: Best of all, it integrates with Vue, so getting up and running
  is easy. You can use your existing skills to shift native iOS apps, native
  android apps, and progressive web apps without any hassle. 


  [00:23:54] AR: Wait. I can use Vue to write a mobile app?


  [00:23:58] T: Yeah. That's what I’ve been saying this whole time. 


  [00:24:01] AR: Well, hot dang. I guess it's high time I give Ionic a try. 


  [00:24:06] NARRATOR: To get started, visit ionicframework.com/vue.


  [00:24:14] AR: The heck was that.  


  [00:24:16] T: Just a narrator. Don't worry about it. 


  [00:24:19] AR: All right, okay. Be sure to tell Ionic you Enjoy the Vue. 


  [EPISODE CONTINUED]


  [00:24:30] AC: Having spent the last two days deep in ESLint configs, her
  concern about tooling, overriding the order in which you may have originally
  written things, which I much prefer there to be always an expected order that
  things are declared. To me, listeners should always be the last thing, last
  attributes declared. I can see that inadvertently overwriting the developer's
  intent, which then Vue is apparently inferring developer intent by the order
  of properties, even though tooling can very easily make that different. I’m
  just going to say maybe this was a bad call. 


  [00:25:13] T: Because I feel like also we don't really have a good way in the
  template of showing intent with a specific order. You can't put a comment in
  the middle of your list of attributes, for example. “So how did they know that
  the order is deliberate or if it's just arbitrary?” I think in general, at
  least for me, in templates with these kinds of frameworks, I’m not really used
  to a lot of decision making being yielded to the template. So it's surprising
  to me that something like the order of attributes would be something that the
  template is responsible for. 


  [00:25:48] AR: I think I can see it both ways to a certain extent. I’m kind of
  flip-floppy on this. On the one hand, I like that. If it goes in a certain
  order in the template, then that's how it's going to show up. That’s how it's
  going to be handled in the component. But at the same time, I definitely have
  an ESLint rule that says v-bind goes to the bottom, always. So I can go both
  ways on this one. 


  [00:26:19] T: It's also like, yeah, because there's also additional ordering
  rules in the script tag, you would necessarily have to flip between the two of
  them to understand all of the ways that the order is being determined. It’s
  just confusing to me that some of it would be determined by the template and
  some of it would be determined by the script tag. Now, you have two different
  places to check to see why your data is coming in, in a certain way. 


  [00:26:44] AR: I suppose what you could do is, you could — if you are pulling
  in an object to do v-bind on, you could deconstruct the incoming object that
  you are wanting to put on there and pull out the specific things that you do
  not want them to be able to reassign. And just define some extra variables
  that are never used because you are pulling them out of an object. 


  [00:27:10] AC: Okay. If we're going back to examples we just used in scenarios
  where you would use v-bind explicitly instead of, say, the shorthand, we may
  be passing in things we're not aware of. 


  [00:27:23] AR: And that's what I’m saying is that if you do not want —


  [00:27:25] AC: But if we're just trying to batch, like, pass props down,
  chances are if we wanted to destructure, we would have done that somewhere
  higher up. But if we're just trying to pass things through, it seems like it
  sort of defeats the purpose of how we decided to handle it in the first place.
  I’m actually now firmly of the opinion that Vue 2 behavior was better. 


  [00:27:49] AR: Or maybe a toggle to be able to toggle between the two so that
  you can —


  [00:27:50] T: Oh, no.  


  [00:27:52] AC: Yeah, a configuration. 


  [00:27:53] AR: More options. 


  [00:27:55] T: I mean, I think —


  [00:27:55] AR: That never goes wrong. 


  [00:27:57] AC: One other point I want to make is that something I want so
  desperately is the ability to have comments in the middle of attributes into
  place. 


  [00:28:05] T: That would be amazing. 


  [00:28:06] AC: I can't tell you how many times I have wished for that. 


  [00:28:08] T: Comments in templates is the worst. 


  [00:28:11] AC: Just being able to say, like, comment out an attribute. 


  [00:28:14] T: Oh, my god. Yes. 


  [00:28:14] AC: Just to see how the behaviors — I have tried to do that so many
  times like, “Nope, that's not a thing.” 


  [00:28:18] T: I always end up making a second copy and then deleting the thing
  and commenting out the other whole thing. It’s like, “Come on.” Especially if
  it's, the order is important, I would want to be able to leave a note being
  like, “Don't change this order. Here's why,” because like when it comes to — 


  [00:28:33] AC: Yeah. And like have an ESLint rule, like, disable thing for
  that line. Yeah. That’s the other reason I want comments is because sometimes
  I need to overwrite the ‘don't use index as the key when I’m actually using an
  object.’ Index is the key, so screw you. 


  [00:28:53] T: Yeah. Or sometimes you just don't need that key behaviors but
  you have to put it because the [inaudible 00:28:57] said so and it's like —


  [00:28:59] AR: I have a solution for that for you. You could always just use
  JSX. 


  [00:29:04] T: I thought you said you had a solution but then you just spewed —


  [00:29:09] AC: — I was about to use an obscenity but we're not supposed to do
  that, so F you. 


  [00:29:15] T: Just kidding. I’m sure there's valid reasons to use JSX but for
  the declarative purposes. 


  [00:29:20] AC: By the way, Ben is looking — 


  [00:29:21] AR: Yeah. Ben is deep in study. 


  [00:29:22] AC: He’s looking like we just ruined his world. 


  [00:29:25] AR: And he’s deep in thought and concentration.


  [00:29:28] T: I mean, it's just when I think of merging multiple component
  data together, I always think of it as like Object.assign, so maybe it's just
  a matter of readjusting my mental model. But I like that — that was really
  predictable, and I know no matter what the children are going to follow a
  predictable pattern and the ways that they merge the data. Now, I guess it's
  technically predictable but it's like, I have to look at the same thing. Like
  Ari said earlier, do the math to see what the sum is, rather than just knowing
  it's always going to be merged in a specific constant order. 


  [00:30:00] BH: And this is why software is an iterative process. Who knows? I
  actually do see an RSC. Actually, that's why I was a bit heads down on the
  discussion on this very thing, and then people have been bringing up the very
  issue that we all talk about as far as the unpredictability of order in HTML
  attributes. So there very well could be — as anything else, when you're
  looking to do these things, check the docs for the latest updates because
  sometimes we are human when we make these design decisions. So it's very
  possible this could certainly change. I mean, definitely let me be very clear.
  This is not a promise it would but this is just part of patching and trying to
  figure out things as people use them. And whether or not we sort of went down
  the wrong path on this one or not. 


  [00:30:41 AC: For reference, today is January 7th, 2021, so yeah. If it's any
  significant amount of time after that date, check the docs. 


  [00:30:51] BH: Yeah. Check the docs. Yeah. You know what? I’m going to drop
  this for those listening, so I’m just going to make sure. In our resources,
  we'll make sure to drop the RSC sort of being discussed. If this is something
  you feel very passionate about and also have your own opinions, please be sure
  to add your comments to the RSC. Hearing from the community is something that
  can be very helpful, as far as letting sort of the authors and the team know
  what people's thoughts are on it. 


  [00:31:16] T: Yeah. I’m imagining the code base that both uses the current
  breaking change as discussed and also a functional CSS library like Tachyons
  or Tailwind. That’s a little scary. Anyway, yeah. Potentially, if this
  changes, does that mean that there would be no breaking changes in v-binds
  behavior in version three?


  [00:31:36] BH: Theoretically. 


  [00:31:37] T: Okay. Otherwise, v-bind [inaudible 00:31:39] behavior. 


  [00:31:38] AR: Yay. No breaking changes. 


  [00:31:42] T: It is the same. 


  [00:31:43] BH: Too soon to celebrate. 


  [00:31:44] AR: All right, okay. 


  [00:31:46] T: Well, we'll edit that in if anything changes before the episode
  goes out. 


  [00:31:51] AR: We’ll save that clip. 


  [00:31:52] T: Yeah. Because I know like the model, there are some big changes,
  so I just wanted to make sure that this is the only breaking change in terms
  of v-bind as of now. 


  [00:32:00] BH: To my knowledge it is. 


  [00:32:01] T: Cool. 


  [00:32:02] BH: But for all of us, again, looking, I do not hold an
  encyclopedia of all the docs. Please check the docs for any additional
  things. 


  [00:32:09] T: Ben, this whole time I thought Ben was short for bencyclopedia,
  but I was wrong. 


  [00:32:15] AC: You heard it here first. Ben does not know everything. 


  [00:32:20] BH: Please tell everyone that. 


  [00:32:24] AR: With that, it's time for us to move on to this week's picks.
  Ben, you get to go first. 


  [00:32:32] BH: Alrighty. Well, in that case, my very first pick. A lot of
  times, when it comes to reading books, I don't know about you all, but there's
  just so much content out there. A lot of times, there are books that you hear
  that are highly recommended like 7 Habits of Highly Effective People or How to
  Win Friends and Influence People, like friends and whatever. But it's just
  like these are the books you're kind of like, “Oh, that would be interesting
  to read but I also don't want to dedicate like hours on end to this because
  after all, like even as someone who is like a self-proclaimed productivity
  nerd, I like reading non-fiction.” There are times these books still take me
  either months to get through, just because I’ll get like I’ll lose motivation
  30% through. 


  All of that to say is Blinkist is a service and one of my picks for this week
  where basically they take really popular books like the ones I mentioned, and
  they basically sum it up within 15 to 20 minutes. So they have an audio
  version, as well as a basically short-handed like sort of notes. For those who
  of us who grew up in the ‘90s, you might think this just like Sparknotes
  essentially but —


  [00:33:34] AC: I was about to say that, which I sparked out at like every book
  report. 


  [00:33:39] BH: Yeah. It’s just a fantastic use of your time because you
  basically can go, “Oh, I got like the seven habits that highly effective
  people use. That was interesting. I’ll like take those two things and, nah,
  I’m not going to read the book anymore. I’m good. I’m going to move on.” I
  think there's something really valuable about being able to iterate that way,
  as also maybe you're like, “You know what? What was really interesting. I want
  to deep dive further.” Now, you have reason to buy the full book and read.
  Make something actionable of it. I think that's one of the, at least —


  [00:34:04] T: But the seven habits were spoiled. Why would you read it after
  it was spoiled? Now, you know the ending. You know the seven points. 


  [00:34:09] BH: You need more anecdotes. You need more examples. You can figure
  out how to apply it to your own life. But anyhow, I digress. Yes, Blinkist.
  There are other services. It's just Blinkist is the one I’ve tried. So far,
  I’ve been happy with the quality of content, the highlightings. If you're a
  big person into highlighting and exporting notes, that part is less than
  optimal. But, again, for the content, it is still worth the time and money. 


  For my second pick, I know I picked this the last episode but I think it's
  worth repeating again, just because, as the more I’ve dove into, the more I’ve
  enjoyed it is the Obsidian Markdown editor but also for note taking, second
  brain Zetacast and stuff. I’ve been really enjoying that. Probably I think by
  the time this episode is released I’ll have released a night owl theme for the
  Obsidian theme based on Sarah Drasner's VS Code Night Owl. Be on the lookout
  for that. With that, I’ll pass it back to you, Alex. 


  [00:35:00] AR: Cool. Those all sound really awesome. Tessa, what are your
  picks for the week?


  [00:35:09] T: My first pick since Ben talked about not reading books will be a
  book, but it has lots of pictures. It's called Draw Stronger. A friend of mine
  recommended it, and it is a book kind of about ergonomics and limb strength
  and how to I guess maintain a healthy posture, do stretches that are good for
  your arms and your core. It’s basically like how to not debilitate yourself
  when you're a working artist. I read most of it when I got it a couple days
  ago, and it seems like not just a nice light overview of all the different
  muscles that you use when you're working at your desk and also gives a lot of
  different stretch routines and things you can try. 


  But also, of course, because you are sitting at your desk, leaning over for
  extended periods of time, there is potentially a lot of overlap with issues
  that people who, I don't know, might be working at a computer all day could
  face. If that's you, you may want to check out this book. It's print only.
  There's no e-book. I tried. 


  Then my other two picks are for the dry winter season. One of them is a lotion
  called XeraCalm A.D. from a french company, Avene. This is great if you've
  ever had extremely severe skin dryness to the point where maybe you couldn't
  even do anything. I hope that this can be helpful to you and also just for
  less severe skin dryness issues. It's a great lotion. It doesn't have
  preservatives I believe, it doesn't have a scent, and it doesn't leave your
  hands greasy. I mean, they are moisturized but it's not greasy compared to
  other lotions that I’ve tried, so I really appreciate that about it. 


  Then the last pick, some of you may know that I do have hair, and hair in the
  winter can get very staticky. So depending on your hair type, this may work
  better for you when your hair is wet or dry. For me, it works better when it's
  wet, but I like to put this oil called Mermaid Hair Oil from Captain
  Blankenship in my hair sometimes. It smells nice. It doesn't weigh my hair
  down like other oils I’ve tried, and it keeps the static from getting out of
  control. Those are my picks. 


  [00:37:15] AC: I might have to try that because I also have hair. 


  [00:37:19] T: Oh, my gosh. Yeah, we do. 


  [00:37:21] AC: I have —


  [00:37:21] AR: I had never noticed. 


  [00:37:22] AC: I know. I have very fine hair which gets real staticky. I live
  in Colorado, so it's real dry, so yeah. 


  [00:37:31] T: When I’m feeling really on my self-care game, I’ll put in the
  oil. I’ll brush my hair and braid it. So many times I have fallen off the
  wagon and then suffered for hours on end trying to undo that work. 


  [00:37:43] AR: Okay. Next up, Ari. 


  [00:37:45] AC: I don't have any picks. All the shows I binged watched over the
  break were so soapy that I’m not willing to admit to them here, so sorry. Not
  this week. 


  [00:37:58] T: I finally started watching your other pick, The Queen's Gambit,
  so I’m like halfway through now. 


  [00:38:02] AC: It’s so good, right?


  [00:38:03] T: It’s very stylistic and lush. 


  [00:38:05] AR: Nice. Cool. Well, that comes to me then, and my one pick for
  this week is the book SVG Animations by Sarah Drasner. I just received it as a
  gift and I am super excited to be able to start looking into it and learning
  about SVG animations, so yeah. That’s it for this episode. Thank you for
  listening. And remember, Enjoy the Vue. 


  [END]
---
