---
episode-number: 59
episode-title: 'Live Streaming Our Way to a More Welcoming Internet with Liz Phillips '
date-published: 2021-05-03T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-59.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/a802eb69-7bb4-468a-8bc0-8b088e448996.mp3
picks:
  - person: Ari Clark
    picks:
      - title: 'Nanette, Hannah Gadsby (Netflix)'
        website: 'https://www.netflix.com/title/80233611'
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - title: 'Baba Is You (Computer, Nintendo Switch)'
        website: 'https://hempuli.com/baba'
      - title: 'May I Screw Up Your Life?: The Official Guide to Ludi-Q''s, Jan Black'
        website: >-
          https://bookshop.org/books/may-i-screw-up-your-life-the-official-guide-to-ludi-q-s-9781616235529/9781616235529
  - person: Alex Riviere
    picks:
      - title: Raspberry Pi Pico
        website: 'https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-pico/'
shownotes: "**Overview**\n\nToday’s guest is Liz Phillips, a software engineer, and Twitch streamer. Liz is creating an approachable, judgment-free community where software engineers of all levels can come together to learn, share, and create cool projects. She currently has a\_Twitch channel\_where she primarily codes projects from scratch while answering any questions viewers have about the process or software engineering, design, and learning in general.\n\n**Key Points From This Episode:**\n- The panel shares their own experiences of streaming, from remote meetings to gaming.\n- Liz shares how she got into streaming, what she streams, and what she loves about it.\n- The benefits of learning something, live, on the internet, and embracing the process.\n- How live coding makes Liz a better pair programmer and helps her in interviews.\n- Her advice for getting your streaming set up right: start incrementally and build over time.\n- Why Twitch can be an intimidating place for those who aren’t familiar with it.\n- Using her platform for important issues, how she has dealt with bad actors and trolls, and why she doesn’t believe in “apolitical spaces.”\n- The importance of having trusted moderators in a space that can be toxic.\n- The everyone-is-welcome, no-gatekeeping environment Liz tries to cultivate on her channel.\n- Hear about the geolocation-based, anonymous, secret-sharing app Liz remade with Vue.\n- Some of the benefits for Liz of using Vue for that project rather than React or Gatsby.\n- How routing in Vue is simpler than nearly any other alternative library.\n\n**Tweetables:**\n- “I want people to see what it’s like when an engineer actually sits down to work because you almost never just sit down and code for two minutes and get something working. You code for two minutes and you get stuck. Then you read some docs and then you try something else.” — @lizcodes [0:06:49]\n- “I use my platform to talk about issues I think are important, because I feel it’s not worth it to have a platform if I’m not going to try to educate people or create a space to share issues. I don’t believe in apolitical spaces.” — @lizcodes [0:16:38]\n- “I have a goal to try to create a no-gatekeeping environment.” — @lizcodes [0:24:48]\n\n**Liz's picks:**\n- [ADHD Alien by Pina Varnel](http://adhd-alien.com) and [ADHD Comics by Dani Donovan](https://www.adhddd.com) (Web Comics)\n- [Knitting](https://www.knitpicks.com/kits/learn-to-knit-kits/c/300821), keeping my hands busy and my mind focused during meetings and videos\n- [Kobo](https://us.kobobooks.com/products/kobo-libra-h2o), a super quality e-ink e-reader that isn't Amazon!\n- [TCP/IP Illustrated](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/tcpip-illustrated/020163354X) (Book) for learning better about how the internet works (unfortunately I think the only place to get this book at the moment is Amazon or a subscription to O'Rilley books)\n- [Queens Majesty Hot Sauce](https://queenmajestyhotsauce.com/products/queen-majesty-2-oz-sampler) (Hot Sauce)\n\n**Resources Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**\n- [Liz Phillips on Twitter](https://twitter.com/lizcodes)\n- [Liz Phillips on Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/illuminatedspace)\n- [Twitch](http://twitch.tv)\n- [OBS](https://obsproject.com)\n- [Twitch 101 Thread](https://twitter.com/lizcodes/status/1241153715710631936)\n- [Yik Yak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yik_Yak)\n- Deaddrop Repo\n- [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com)\n- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com)\n- [Galaxy Buds Live Eartip | Free Eartip (ENG)](https://youtu.be/Pm1zvVjdRQc), ZUYONI TECH (YouTube)\n- [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en)"
transcript: >-
  EPISODE 59


  [EPISODE]


  [00:00:10] AC: Hey, everybody and welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I’m Ari, and today
  on our panel, we have Tessa.


  [00:00:14] T: Hello.


  [00:00:17] AC: Alex.


  [00:00:18] AR: Hello.


  [00:00:19] AC: And today, our special guest is Liz Phillips. Liz, would you
  like to introduce yourself?


  [00:00:25] LP: Sure. I’m Liz. Hello. I am a software engineer and I do Twitch
  streaming, which I think is why I’m here today.


  [00:00:36] AC: All right. Just to get things started, let’s do a roundtable
  question. Let’s start with your own experiences streaming or, if you don’t
  have any, what are some of your favorite streams to watch? I’m guessing we’re
  talking coding streams, I don’t know. Could be anything. Tessa, would you like
  to start?


  [00:00:56] T: Well, when you put it that way. I guess, yeah, my main
  experience with streaming was when everything shut down and meetups had to go
  remote, so I set up a Twitch stream for a view meetup. I ran a couple of times
  but then, after that, we somehow managed offload onto somebody else. I didn’t
  have to worry about it anymore. In terms of watching streams, sometimes I’ll
  maybe watch like with Wendy’s Craft With Me stream on YouTube, but I don’t
  really watch streams all that often compared to like finished videos.


  [00:01:30] AC: All right, Alex.


  [00:01:33] AR: Yeah. I haven’t really done very much streaming at all. I’ve
  streamed a couple of talks sort of as my like, here, I’m going to do a talk
  and here is my really rough draft of it. I do that in the open and get a bunch
  of people to comment on it and give me context on it as it’s happening and ask
  questions and I scribble stuff down. It’s really dirty. I haven’t really done
  very much streaming in that regard. I’ve only every done it once or twice so I
  have set ups for it, but I don’t use them. I do enjoy Jason Lang [inaudible
  00:02:07] stream that he does, where he brings somebody on and learns about
  some technology and they pair program together. It’s really fun. I really
  enjoy watching that one.


  [00:02:22] T: Nice. Yeah, that reminds me. I have seen a couple of coding
  streams. I saw one where Ben was streaming. Then I think I messaged him, like,
  “Your profile picture is covering your code,” so he try to fix it, and then I
  saw like 10 Bens on the screen. Then I saw one from Liz that was really cool
  where she did this magic trick, where there were like multiple Liz’s on the
  screen at once.


  [00:02:44] LP: That’s one of my finest moments. Thanks for bringing that up. 


  [00:02:48] T: Nice.


  [00:02:50] AC: I guess, I’ll go. Once upon a time, I would regularly stream on
  Twitch, but it was gaming. This was, oh, god, like six years ago. There are
  still some highlights there, on my Twitch channel, which coincidentally is
  @GloomyLumi. But then, I had stopped streaming for about a year and I went to
  coding boot camp, and I thought I might try streaming that. That happened one
  time, and I found that it was actually really frustrating for me to try to
  learn with people watching, especially when I was just really not getting the
  concept, and so I was already frustrated, and like people are in the chat like
  trying to tell me something and I’m like, “I don’t understand what you’re
  saying.” That ended that and I haven’t streamed since.


  But that brings us to Liz who does it on the reg, so how do you get into it?


  [00:03:46] LP: Yeah, I do stream. I stream, recently, it’s been twice a week.
  It was once a week for about two years. I’ve been streaming, it will be three
  years in November. So, I guess that makes it about like — that’s a weird way
  to count it. It was three years this past November, so over three years. I
  stream coding, I stream games, I’ve done a stream where I taught people how to
  knit. That was a big success because someone actually came out of and just
  like knits now and they post pictures in my Discord. They’re like —


  [00:04:24] T: Oh, that’s so cool.


  [00:04:24] LP: — fingerless mittens, and it’s like, “I’ve never made
  fingerless mittens, so great for you.” Yeah, I do kind of like whatever. I did
  a cooking stream for Halloween, that was really fun. I enjoy streaming, but my
  favorite streams to watch right now are probably cooking streams, and then my
  other favorite streamer is a game dub streamer named DrMikachu. She does great
  streams, so big shoutout to her.


  [00:04:54] AC: As I mentioned, I get super frustrated when I’m trying to learn
  on stream. So are you just like a better person than I am or do you have
  particular strategies for kind of quelling the frustration?


  [00:05:08] LP: Yeah. When I was first starting, I had some concerns about it,
  but I feel like part of the reason I wanted to stream is because — I started
  streaming probably like a year and a half after I had been working as an
  engineer. After coding bootcamp, I got hired and I was working for like maybe
  a year and a half. I just realized that — because my background is actually in
  theater design. I have two degrees.


  [00:05:38] AC: Alex is waving his arms.


  [00:05:41] LP: With like theater, live entertainment design, I started doing
  some graphic design and stuff like that. My whole life I was like, “Oh!” The
  only class I almost ever failed was like precalculus and chemistry and I
  wasn’t super strong in math, it’s like I’m not a technical person, I’m an art
  person. Then I went to coding bootcamp because I was like, the internet is
  cool and whatever. This is a really long answer to your question. 


  [00:06:08] T: It’s a great answer.


  [00:06:09] AR: It is a great answer.


  [00:06:12] LP: Thank you. I just realized when I was in coding bootcamp that I
  was like, “Yes, I’m sure it comes more naturally to some people than others,
  but like this whole like art science or like art technology dichotomy is just
  like completely false. It’s a skill that you can learn, just like you can
  learn anything else.”


  Even though I often like don’t have the answers or I work on things very
  slowly on stream, I have a lot of partially finished projects, but like it was
  part of my mission to be like, “I am going to learn this on the internet,
  live, because I want people to see what it’s like when an engineer actually
  sits down to work because you almost never just sit down and code for two
  minutes and get something working. You code for two minutes and you get stuck.
  Then you read some docs and then you try something else, and then that doesn’t
  work and so you look at different docs. Now, you look at Stack Overflow,” then
  whatever.


  It’s always been my mission to never do the like cooking show where it’s like,
  “First, you do this and then let me open this file and here’s the finished
  project.” Like I don’t want to do, like, the now draw the rest of the horse.
  It’s different. There are some people who like really bright out like every
  single thing that they’re doing or there are people who have like courses kind
  of, where they are going through – like, they just know 100% like this is what
  you’re going to do because they have a project that they’ve kind of already
  done.


  Those people are also really great. It’s just, for me, I didn’t see as many
  people who are like, I’m just going to try to build as much of this on stream.
  That’s what I always try to do. I have found that I can I keep more momentum
  on projects if I try to work on it off stream, because I don’t always feel
  like being on the internet, but I do have things I want to get done. So,
  sometimes, just recently, I will start doing things off of stream. But
  usually, I’ve just like picked a project, just been like, “I’m going to do
  this on stream.” Sometimes I don’t finish. Most of the time I don’t finish,
  but I’m just going to sit there and do my best and learn it. But the short
  answer is, I don’t think I’m a better person than you.


  [Crosstalk 00:08:23]


  [00:08:27] AC: Yeah, no. For me, like started as a gaming streamer, I felt
  like this need to like continue interacting or like commentating on what I was
  doing. My brain does not work that way. If I’m coding, I am silent. I am in my
  head and that’s that. Do you think that it makes you a better developer having
  to verbalize what you’re doing?


  [00:08:55] LP: I wouldn’t say that. I wouldn’t say that it makes me a better
  developer. I will say that it makes it very — it’s a very handy skill that
  I’ve developed partially from streaming to interview, because that’s what they
  want.


  [00:09:08] AC: I bet, yeah.


  [00:09:10] LP: The point of an interview is to be like, “What are you
  thinking? What are you doing? Why are you doing that?” But there are also
  techniques for getting around that, where you — I tell people for interviews,
  like, if you’re one of those people that has to sit there and think it through
  before you can verbalize your thoughts, then think it through and then say, “I
  was just thinking that I was going to do this, this, this, and this.” Then
  like, “Now, I need to think about it some more.” 


  I think that also works, like there’s lots of different streamers, and lots of
  different coding streamers. Like there are people who are a lot more quiet.
  There are lots of reasons to watch a stream and it isn’t just because this
  person is talking about code. I think the bigger streamers that you see are
  the louder personalities, who are yelling or screaming or, like, all over the
  place. I’m more of a reserved person, so that is something to, like, for me to
  personally combat is to be like, like I’m not a big personality though. I’m
  never going to have a big stream. It’s fine. 


  People will watch or they won’t, but yeah, I don’t think it makes me a better
  developer. I do think it makes me a really good pair programmer and it does
  help me in interviews.


  [00:10:27] T: Nice. I bet it would help also like when it comes to, if you’re
  in a more senior position and you're helping onboard someone new. I’m still
  trying to imagine someone live coding and screaming at the computer. But I’m
  curious if it if it was a skill that you got better at over time, because I
  have always found live coding challenging. But at least I got to a point where
  I could do like JavaScript puzzles for interviews. But I recently had one
  where I had to do UI stuff live and I had — I didn’t know that was coming and,
  like, oh my gosh! I could not do the most basic stuff to save my life. It was
  so hard.


  [00:11:07] LP: I mean, yeah, that’s just didn’t sound very fair. Because I
  know every day, or I can decide, like I can decide – I have all the control or
  I should, like if I have my set up correct. I have all the control in what is
  happening on the stream. I’m never going to be like, “Oh! I didn’t know I was
  going to do UI today.” I would also be like flabbergasted in that situation,
  because I get to decide, either the day of or the day before or the week
  before, however long like, “Oh! I think I’m going to do some like UI design
  next week,” or I can wake up or even during the middle of the stream and be,
  like, I’m not feeling it. I’m going to play games instead and I can just
  decide to do that. I mean, I’m sure it helps like with learning how to handle
  some unpredictability, but you still have so much more control than you do in
  an interview.


  [00:12:06] T: That makes sense. You mentioned like getting your set up right.
  That was one thing I found really hard the two times that I had to open OBS.
  How did you learn all the technologies that you needed if they were new to
  you? Or do you have any — have you written any resources that maybe can help
  other people get started if they’re interested in trying streaming?


  [00:12:28] LP: I’m not a big vlogger, I think that’s partially why I like
  doing Twitches, because the time that it takes to do it – or I spend not very
  much time prepping. Like, I might go through a spurt where I’m like, “I’m
  going to try to improve one thing before my stream, every stream this month.”
  But, yeah, usually, I like streaming because it’s like, I’m going to do the
  work on the stream. I’m not going to edit a video. I’m not going to write a
  script. I’m not going to publish a blog post. 


  Yeah, I’m not a big vlogger. so I don’t have like a vlog to point to be like,
  “Here’s my streaming set up.” So yeah, I do have a Twitter thread that’s more
  about like how to use Twitch as a viewer. But OBS and getting all those things
  set up, I feel like I just — I did it slowly over time. Like, first, I just
  had my video. Actually, I streamed without a video for a long time. It was
  just my screen. Then I got a video camera, then I got a nice microphone and,
  now, I have two tiny ring lights and, now, I have a bunch of overlays and,
  like, I have a little stream deck with 15 buttons on it. I would say, like,
  incrementally, do it a little bit at a time. It doesn’t have to be perfect the
  first time you do it. But yeah, that Twitter thread that I meant to link and I
  did not.


  Actually, I was just curious and I made a Twitter poll earlier this week where
  I was like, “Hey! People who don’t use Twitch, why don’t you use Twitch?” Most
  people said they just weren’t interested, which, that’s fine. Then the other
  options were like, “I had a bad experience. Isn’t that place toxic?” or “I
  don’t know how, like I just don’t know how to do.” 


  [00:14:16] T: I think that was my vote.


  [00:14:19] LP: Yeah. It’s really like intimidating place, like, to be totally
  honest. It is not user-friendly and they also lean really hard into like video
  games side, which I think is such a shame, because there’s so much other stuff
  that happens on Twitch. But yeah, they really do like lean into Twitches for
  gaming. That is also an intimidating factor, because the culture around gaming
  is pretty intimidating and toxic.


  [00:14:52] AC: I know that is used to be that people would report you if you
  were streaming like anything other than video games, or something like that
  kind of went away and they started to cater to creatives. But yeah, no, people
  are used with that. When I would just be like, “Okay. I’m done gaming for the
  night. Let’s stop, guys.” They were like, “I’m going to report you.” I’m like,
  “Go ahead, have fun.” 


  [00:15:16] LP: Wow! Yeah. I feel like that doesn’t happen quite as often
  anymore, because there are so many other categories. Sometimes people are
  like, “Oh! I’m going to mark my stream as science and technology.” Sometimes I
  do this, where it’s like, today I’m designing. I’m not really coding anything.
  I just want to do a whole tech design document. I’m still going to put in
  science and technology because it’s related to science and technology, but I
  don’t know what would happen if somebody reported me for doing that.


  [00:15:48] AC: I don’t think anything ever really happens, because reporting
  on the internet doesn’t do anything.


  [00:15:55] LP: Yeah.


  [00:15:58] AC: So, being that it is the internet, do you ever have experiences
  with, let’s say bad actors coming into your chat and how do you handle it?


  [00:16:07] LP: I have been fortunate so far, knock on wood or knock on IKEA
  formica, that most of the bad actors or just spam, whatever. I have people
  drop in there like, “Want to increase your views?” and like every other word
  is like capital lowercase, like, “Click here,” and I report it. But yeah, I
  don’t have that much. The biggest problems I have is, last year, when like — I
  use my platform to talk about issues I think are important, because I feel
  it’s not worth it to have a platform if I’m not going to try to educate people
  or create a space to share issues. I don’t believe in apolitical spaces.


  Last year when BLM was kind of coming to like more prominence, I was talking a
  little bit about it with the protests and everything, on my stream, and I had
  somebody who had been in my stream multiple times, like, started arguing with
  me. So, I ended up banning them. I don’t know, things like that happen more
  often, where someone’s like, “Why don’t you just —” I had someone come in
  actually while I was doing Vue stuff, which I thought was funny because I feel
  like Vue as a community is generally like a little less aggro than React.


  [00:17:30] AC: We like to think though.


  [00:17:32] T: Hope so. Fingers crossed.


  [00:17:35] LP: But I’ve been doing mostly React streams, and then I started
  doing Vue stuff, and someone came in, and I was following the Getting Started
  on the Vue website, and someone was just like, “This is not how you really
  write Vue.” I was like, “It’s on the website. This is the official Vue
  website.” They were like, “Yeah, I know, but that’s not how it’s done.” I was
  like, “Okay. Will you either have to stop saying that or you have to give me a
  link. Just tell me something about how to do it ‘correctly.’” I don’t know. I
  understood where they were going because they wanted me to do like
  composition, like component, like composition or whatever. They were like,
  “This is how it’s written in production,” or whatever and I was like, “Okay.”
  I was just like, “You have to stop. We’re not talking about this anymore.”
  That’s mostly the problems that I have, is just like people coming in, and
  instead of being like, “Oh! Wow! Have you tried this or that?” They’re just
  like, “Do this.” 


  [Crosstalk 00:18:36].


  I’ve been trying to grow as a person and have like better boundaries to be
  just like, “No. Don’t bring it up again. We’re not doing that today.” Yeah, I
  luckily have not had like the worst trolls, but I also have like a pretty
  small stream. I think that makes it less likely that someone’s going to come
  and just cause problems, because there’s not very much of an audience for
  them.


  I did get followed botted one time, which is when someone sets up a botnet of
  accounts, I guess. I don’t know if that’s the right word. They just like send
  them all to follow you all at once. If you have any alerts that are usually
  nice, so that when new people follow you, it’s like, “Bring! Tessa just joined
  your group.” I’m like, “Wow, thanks, Tessa.” Instead of that, it just goes,
  like, “Bring! Bring! Bring!” like over and over again, like 100,000 or 10,000
  times or whatever because they just 10,000 bot accounts to follow you. That
  happened to me one time. But yeah, not that much bad things have happened in
  three plus years of streaming.


  [00:19:46] AC: Yeah, I had someone buy followers for me once. It was done in a
  way that lake it was over like a couple days. At first, like I thought it was
  legit and then I was like, “No, that’s not legit.” Then it was really
  disappointing. 


  [00:20:03] LP: Yeah, it definitely hurts to be like, “Wow, my father account
  when up so much.” It’s like, “No, it didn’t.” 


  [00:20:11] AC: I was legit mildly crushed by that.


  [00:20:15] LP: Well, Twitch has this thing that they were trying to do that’s
  kind of like an end of your round up about your stream stats, which I actually
  still haven’t gotten mine, so I don’t really understand what their rollout is
  or if you had to be above a certain amount or something, I don’t know. Because
  not every got theirs at once, but people who had been follow botted, sometimes
  there’s stat for like, “You’ve gained this many followers.” It would just be
  like negative, because they had been like follow botted and then they got
  taken away. For some reason, the math like didn’t add up. 


  [00:20:48] AC: Well, I’m glad to hear that you haven’t had that many negative
  experiences. I wish I could say the same. I’m hoping that perhaps the Twitch
  community has matured a bit since I was streaming because this was several
  years ago. The fact that it was primarily gaming as you mentioned, that is a
  much more toxic community than tech, though I don’t know, appealing. There are
  areas that are comfortable, but —


  [00:21:15] T: It’s a tough competition. I feel like we have somebody on this
  episode who has experience getting into moderation for larger communities. I
  could be wrong, but if there were someone like that, I would be interested in
  what they would have to say about this conversation.


  [00:21:33] AC: I will say that my moderators were my lifeline.


  [00:21:37] AR: Yeah. Having done moderation for several communities now, it’s
  been definitely interesting. I’ve never been a moderator for Twitch, so I have
  no experience with that, so I cannot speak to that at all. But yeah, Liz, do
  you have moderators? Do you have group of trusted individuals that you’re
  like, “Okay. Cool. If I’m busy and don’t notice things, like to care of stuff
  or — ?”


  [00:22:08] LP: Yeah, I have a few moderators. Some of them are automatically
  trustworthy because one is my partner and one is my brother. But I do have a
  few others, like there’s been a couple of people who have just been in my
  stream so much, and they’ve always been super helpful, and they hang out with
  me and chat off and on for like a year or something. I’m just like, “Hey! Do
  you want to be a mod? Because you’re here all the time anyway. Would you like
  that?” I’ve had two or three people say yes to that. If they’re there, they’re
  a mod.


  But yeah, I don’t know, my chat — I have a lot of people, some of whom I know,
  like from off of Twitch, who don’t even code, they just turn it on the
  background just to like hang out. Or as we say in the Twitch community, that
  lurkers are the backbone of Twitch. Yeah. I have people who do that. I feel
  like I have the people who are like ride or die, who are like there a lot, are
  like so chill that it really helps that it’s fostering a nice chill community.
  There just hasn’t been that much modding that has had to be done in the
  channel. But, yeah, I do have mods, but they haven’t had to like do a lot.


  [00:23:32] AC: Yeah, my worst experience I think by far – I don’t know, toss
  it between stalker to this one. But someone posted on 4chan to raid my chat.
  Me, being the stubborn person I am, wasn’t going to log off like what they
  clearly were trying to get me to do. Instead, I’m sitting there like
  frantically texting my moderators to be likely, “Please come online,” because
  I think I only had like one in my chat at the time. I was like, “Oh my God! Oh
  my God!” It was terrible. The quality of people who come from 4chan is just so
  amazing.


  [00:24:07] T: What does it mean to raid a chat?


  [00:24:09] AC: They just come in and like post like horrible things.


  [00:24:12] T: Oh, my goodness.


  [00:24:13] AC: Yeah. It was everything I could do to keep my composure while
  it was happening, because it was really honestly terrible, like just saying
  things that should never be said to anyone, very explicit things. And, yeah,
  trying to continue playing Dragon Age: Inquisition while that was happening
  was not easy.


  [00:24:33] T: Yeah. I mean, speaking of toxic comments. Liz, I’m curious what
  kind of environment or vibes, I guess, you try to cultivate on your channel
  and what motivates that?


  [00:24:47] LP: Yeah. I have a goal to try to create a no-gatekeeping
  environment. When it comes to coding. we don’t do any language bashing. As a
  JavaScript dev, I’m very sensitive to that. No language bashing, no like, “You
  just do this. It’s so easy.” No putting anything down that people are into.
  Same with games, like, don’t come in and be like, “Why would anyone play this
  game?” or like, “This is in a real game or real coding language” or any of
  that. Because I know how difficult it is to like get that out of your brain
  once you start thinking like that.


  Yeah, those are the type of vibes I try to put out there, just chill and
  everyone is welcome, no matter what level you’re at. I always tell people they
  can ask whatever questions they want and I’ll try to answer. If I can’t, I
  usually point them towards like my Twitter or my Discord and I’ll be like, “If
  you join my Discord and you ask me in there, like I’ll get an answer for you
  during the week,” or “If you tweet at me, I’ll try to get a code bin together
  for you to try to help you out.” If it’s something that just like really going
  to derail everything we’re working on. Like if I’m trying to learn Vue and
  they’re like, “What’s pass by reference?” I’m like, “I can help you with that
  but I can’t do it right now.”


  [00:26:19] T: Yeah. I’d love to hear more about this Vue project and how
  that’s been going, aside from that one person who — it’s a shame they didn’t
  share their contact info, because like we just want to talk. 


  [00:26:34] AC: Yeah, just a little chat.


  [00:26:37] LP: Come outside for a second. My friends just want to talk to you.


  [00:26:40] AC: We’re super nice.


  [00:26:45] LP: Yeah. I was doing this. I have a project. Like I said, I start
  and stop stuff all the time, but there is a project that I actually did when I
  was in coding bootcamp that – I try not to rebuild things, because I feel like
  you just end up — like, you don’t end up learning that much, or like I get
  bored really fast. But I really liked this idea and I want it to be out there
  in the world. I made like a very simple version that doesn’t really work
  anymore. That is a geolocation-based, anonymous, secret sharing app. What that
  means is the idea of it is that you would go on to the site, you do have some
  kind of login, but that login isn’t tied to like any identifying information.


  Based on where you are in the world at that moment, you can like type out a
  little bit of text, like a tweet-sized amount of text and you can leave it at
  that location. Then only people who are within like a certain radius of that
  location will be able to see that secret. I just think that’s a really cool
  idea. I’ve heard people be like, “Oh, like Yik Yak?” I’m like, “Yeah, I guess,
  but it’s not like live chatting.” It’s like geocaching but for like a little
  piece of digital ephemera. Yeah, that’s the idea, so I made that.


  I don’t even think it was with React. It may have been like a templating
  library or something like Handlebars or whatever. I wanted to remake that with
  Vue and some other backend services, like Netlify. This is something that we
  can add to the notes, I guess, like the repository. I try to make everything I
  build on stream open source, so people can follow along or learn things from
  what I worked on. We can put a link to the repository if people are interested
  in looking at it. Because it has like a plan, like some amount of technical
  design. I’m trying to remember what’s in there right now. There’s not that
  much. 


  There might be like the very like outline of the beginning of a Vue app and
  maybe some other resources installed for like user management or something
  like that. But yeah, it’s very early. Then with the new year, I decided to
  start working on something else, but I want to go back to that project.
  Hopefully I’ll be like in the middle of that when this episode airs. I’m going
  to put that out into the universe and then I’ll have to do it.


  [00:29:16] AC: We’ll give you heads up before, so that you can make it look
  like you just happened to be that great.


  [00:29:24] T: Nice. What lead you to choose Vue for the new project and how
  have you been finding that experience coming from what sounds like mostly a
  React background?


  [00:29:36] LP: I had done a few projects with the React and Gatsby, which
  Gatsby is good at some things when it doesn’t work, it’s pretty frustrating to
  debug. I think anybody who’s into Gatsby will tell you that. I made a personal
  site, which is actually still not published because I wanted to add a couple
  accessibility things. But I made a personal site and I did the whole thing on
  stream. It’s the closest I’ve come to like finishing a whole project, and I
  went to go publish it with — why did I just forget the name? I always forget
  the name of that thing. 


  But anyway, I went to go publish it and it was supposed to be really easy,
  like just connect to the repo, push the branch, and it should just build it
  and host it, and it will be done.


  [00:30:27] T: Heroku?


  [00:30:29] LP: Maybe it was Netlify. Does Netlify do static site hosting?


  [00:30:33] AR: Yeah.


  [00:30:34] T: Yep.


  [00:30:35] LP: Okay. I think it was Netlify. I got all set up, and I push the
  branch and I was like, “It’s building,” and then it was like, the build is
  broken. I was like, “Why is the build broken?” I went to my local machine and
  I build prod and it’s broken. I had no idea how long it had been like that. I
  had don’t know like at what point it was broken, why it doesn’t build, there’s
  not really any errors you can follow. I did end up getting it working with
  help from some Discord communities I was in, and a lot, like hours of just
  like going in and changing one thing and seeing if that was the thing that
  broke it. But I was like, “I need to try something new, like I’m tired of this
  React Gatsby stack, I need just like a new thing that I want to try.”


  I had tried Vue a little at one point, and it was, like, I remember how easy
  the set up was. It was just like, add this to the, import this with the CDN
  and html file, and it was like, Vue is there. You could just write a
  component, like right there. I was like, “That seems easier.” I want something
  that’s a little easier, because React is such — there so much boilerplate.
  Like create React app. I don’t know the numbers off the top my head, but it’s
  huge. I think that’s a huge package and it put so much in there, and you have
  to set up so much to get a React app working. I wanted something that was like
  quick, that was going to be quick to set up.


  [00:32:09] T: Yeah. I always forget until I get like an interview or something
  that I’m told it’s going to be in React how much overhead there is to just
  getting the base app running, compared to like Vue or Angular.


  [00:32:25] AC: Yeah. I mean, even Angular has a nice CLI. Granted, Angular
  projects are at least back in the days to be huge. Though I hear they’re much
  better now.


  [00:32:35] LP: I haven’t messed with Angular that much. 


  [00:32:38] AC: I haven’t since Angular 2 had just been released. 


  [00:32:43] T: I think when I started, I had thought that Angular 2 had just
  come out. But as I was trying to cram a class on Udemy, it became 4, like in
  the middle of the two days that I was looking at the class.


  [00:32:59] AC: They went from 2 to 4 pretty quickly, and then after that, it
  just accelerated. But yeah, I started using the Angular CLI when it was
  release candidate one, so there was not a lot of documentation and that did
  not end well for my Capstone project. Eventually, I got it working, but, oh,
  my God, so much frustration getting there.


  [00:33:22] AR: I definitely, I think, being able to just drop Vue onto a page
  and being able to us it has been extremely beneficial for teaching others as
  well, being able to just go, “Okay, cool. Don’t worry about a build process.
  We’re just going to drop this in, use that, and get going. We’ll figure out
  how to make you a build process later, and then we’ll transfer everything
  over, it will be fine.” It’s very helpful and the Vue CLI also has been lovely
  now that that exists, especially since the version 3 came out.


  [00:34:03] T: I do find that super nice, but at the same time, it’s like,
  whenever I forget something really foundational, something that you’ll have to
  do early on in your Vue journey. Then I look at the docs and it’s trying to
  decipher if something is referring to the CDN import or if it’s referring to
  the CLI app. At least for me, that’s really confusing. I’m not sure if that’s
  the case for you, Liz. Ari is nodding.


  [00:34:31] AC: I’ve definitely been there. I’m like, “Wait! Is this — ugh!” 


  [00:34:35] LP: I remember like most of the Getting Started or maybe all of it,
  I think there’s like one part at the end the last time I was looking at the
  Getting Started docs that tells you like how to get set up for a server-side
  rendering site, instead of loading it into the frontend and doing it there.
  Yeah. So I do remember feeling, like, “Wait! This is nice, but how do I do it
  the other way?” 


  [00:35:07] T: Yeah. Another thing that I’m curious about is I feel like I
  remember reading one of the things that differentiates Vue from a project like
  React, is that there’s a lot of built-in or officially part of the core group
  of Vue technologies, like the router and the store and the SSR options and
  other stuff. I’m not sure what the one-to-one mapping is like with React, but
  I’m curious how that experience has been for you, if you’ve been trying out
  any of those things or planning out to try out any of those things?


  [00:35:37] LP: Like routing and stuff? Is that what you said?


  [00:35:40] T: Mm-hmm.


  [00:35:42] LP: Yeah. I mean, the project that I’m going to get back to is
  going to have to have — it’s probably going to use some amount of routing,
  because there’s different views and pages you’re going to go to. I have not
  used any of it yet, but I mean, React routing is kind of a mess.


  There’s two main libraries that people use, they’re both very opinionated, and
  I don’t know. I find it to be confusing every time I have to go in and work on
  routing. It’s just like very overwhelming. I’m really interested to see how
  different Vue is or how similar it is, I don’t know, but I haven’t touched it
  at all, so I don’t feel like I have an opinion on it.


  [00:36:29] AC: I think it’s easy to use, but my previous experience with
  routing was mostly, like, Angular 1.5, which that was a mess. 


  [00:36:42] T: I think it’s confusing to use, but that’s because I almost never
  do routing. So every time I have to do like one ticket and routing, it’s like
  —


  [Crosstalk 00:36:49] 


  [00:36:50] AC: Yeah. Because yeah, I barely touched routing in my last job.
  But since we’re actually building a new app at my current job, I’ve had to
  touch it a lot more. I mean, yeah, I would say routing in general is always
  kind of intimidating at first. But I would say that once you master the basic
  concepts, it’s not too bad, and then you can kind of expand and do more
  advanced features as you go. It’s a very Vue approach.


  [00:37:21] T: Yeah. I think the last time I had to do some routing, I was
  giving a talk on [inaudible 00:37:26] so I didn’t actually have to do any
  routing because it’s very rails-esque where you just give it a filename, and
  then it will create the routes for you. But I feel like some of the talks I’ve
  heard Alex give where he’ll touch on routing. I’m like, “Oh! I have no idea
  what that’s about. That sounds very hard.”


  [00:37:46] AR: Having come from a background – I started off doing more like
  backend type stuff. So the number of times that I’ve had to make redirect
  files and modify apache configs and stuff, which is a web server, the routing
  in Vue is so much simpler than any of that, that it is a breath of fresh air
  compared to attempting to do stuff on the server. I’m all for it. I like
  routing.


  I’ve definitely had to do some weird things with routing and you can, so it’s
  very powerful if you want to get into like the bones of it. But yeah, I think
  overall, I find it to be pretty straightforward to set up.


  [00:38:36] AC: I’m also really interested to do, like I’ll need a form, like
  at least one form. If not, a couple forms for my app, so I’m really interested
  to see forms. Because I also think form libraries in React are mess. I feel
  like there’s a chance that there’s going to be a lot of angry React people
  like in my Twitter mentions when this comes out. Although, React people
  probably don’t listen to this podcast.


  [00:39:03] T: Yeah, I don’t think they listen to the podcast.


  [00:39:05] AC: Good.


  [00:39:06] AR: Maybe that’s how we’ll market the episode. “Hey! React
  people.” 


  [00:39:10] T: Come @GloomyLumi. Yes, this is neither here nor there, but I
  mean, this is kind reminding me like, Alex, I need to ask you. Well, I can
  explain how you get to this connection. You were talking about routing and
  ease-of-use, and I was like, “I wonder how this compares to your experience
  with audio engineering?” Then I was like, “I need to remember to ask Alex to
  show me over under cable wrapping because I’ve never been able to get the hang
  of it.”


  [00:39:36] LP: I love over under cable wrapping. Theater kids unite.


  [00:39:40] AR: Yay! Yeah, I did theater professionally for 15 years, so that
  is — then, I jumped ship.


  [00:39:46] T: Yeah, of course. I was curious how your background in theater
  and production has informed your experiences in tech and streaming?


  [00:39:57] LP: Yeah. So, one is communication. Theater is very collaborative
  and to get things done, you have to talk to people, you have to talk to people
  you don’t like. You have to talk to people you do like. You have to make deals
  with people to try to figure out how to get enough money to get the cool stuff
  you want and you have to talk to — I don’t know. You have to talk to tons of
  people on theater and be able to communicate what you want from very far away
  or things you can touch or anything like that. 


  I feel like that helps me as a collaborator in coding because that’s one thing
  that I feel gets really undersold is how much being a good communicator makes
  you an effective engineer, and a design background. So, for undergrad, I went
  to art school and I had to take color theory, and composition, and 2D and 3D
  design. I mean, art history, you name it, I took it for my undergrad degree.
  That’s another thing that I feel like engineers, it’s really easy for the
  types of people to get drawn to engineering, like stereotypically, just don’t
  have a lot of arts education. I’m talking very generally, but like the
  stereotypical engineer doesn’t have an arts background.


  I see little bickering, arguments or very egocentric disagreements that happen
  between designers and engineers sometimes when the designer is like, “This
  engineer doesn’t understand like how important my design is.” When a designer
  makes something, everything that’s on that page is there for a reason.
  Everything that’s in that document, the color of it, the size of it, roundness
  of the buttons, the lack of roundness of the buttons, the drop shadows, like
  everything was tweaked and obsessed over for however long to come up with this
  design, and there’s a reason for it. Then the engineer is like, “It’s good
  enough.” Like, “I have X number of things to do, I got I it close enough, the
  colors is close enough, the spacing is close enough. Like, don’t you
  understand how long it takes to do this? Or how difficult it is, or how much
  I’m going to have to rebuild to make that work?”


  It’s like, both things are valid, but they need to come into balance. Coming
  to a designer’s work as an engineer, being like, “Talk to me about how
  important this is,” or like, “Is this close enough?” Instead of just assuming
  like, “Wow! You’re being really sensitive about two pixels.” It’s like, “No. I
  want to be respectful to you. Let me let you know. To do this, I’m going to
  have to go in and rebuild the whole button library so that we can have three
  different sizes as opposed to the two that we already had. Is it important
  enough to you that it’s going to be another three days of work? Are you going
  to use this button in the future? Can we use a button we already had?”


  Conversations like that have really helped me also, just like coming to the
  designers. Having some idea, having done visual design work, of how much work
  went into that, and why they must have decided things have to look a certain
  way is just really helpful.


  [00:43:17] T: Yeah. I feel like design work and development work is very
  similar and that both are in the arena of problem solving. But a lot of times,
  design isn’t seen that way from the outside. People just think of it as making
  things look pretty, which isn’t really the purpose of design. It’s also
  interesting, your comments on art history, because I only had to take a couple
  of required base level art history classes. I feel like, even in those, which
  were mostly memorizing paintings and dates, we had more discussion of the
  impact that the things that you make can have on the world and the messages
  that they send, and the ethics and morals of it than I have day to day in
  tech.


  [00:44:02] LP: Yeah. You can look at companies like, I mean, that only one
  that’s coming to mind currently is just Apple. Like, Apple, part of the reason
  that Apple is the monolith that it is is because of the design of the products
  and the cohesiveness of their design across their website, and their operating
  system, and their devices. It can be really powerful and really important. So,
  it’s just really important come to something with that, that idea of that. The
  designer did all of this for a reason. There’s probably not something on here
  that was just thrown in, like, it’s probably not true.


  [00:44:46] T: Yeah, that’s a good point and kind of, like, same idea,
  different approach. I also really appreciate the kind of chaotic neutrality of
  Samsung, where they’re just like, “We’re going to try a bunch of different
  things. Maybe one of them will be popular, maybe not,” but it seems fun and I
  really like that.


  [00:45:03] AC: Yeah. Like every Samsung device looks different.


  [00:45:07] T: Yeah. They’re like, “What if we fold it this way? Okay. The
  other way.” Like, it’s a Twitter meme, will a phone fold this way or that way?
  I don’t know. Anyway. 


  [00:45:17] AC: How would a phone wear a shoe?


  [00:45:19] LP: Oh ,no!


  [00:45:21] T: They actually, for the Galaxy buds — I forgot what it’s called.
  The one that don’t like completely block your ear canal. They actually did
  make these little silicone socks that go over the tips if it doesn’t have a
  good fit. I’ll link to a video where you can see them in the show notes.


  [00:45:42] AC: I missed that one. Now, if people want to find you on the
  Internet, where can they find you, Liz?


  [00:45:49] LP: My Twitter is @lizcodes and my Twitch channel is
  twitch.tv/illuminatedspace. 


  [00:46:07] AC: All right. Let’s move onto picks. Who’s going to go first?
  Tessa?


  [00:46:14] T: No! I touched my nose first. 


  [00:46:18] AC: Oh! I don’t play that game, so —


  [00:46:22] LP: Unless we’re streaming on Twitch.


  [00:46:25] T: Okay. I think this one has been picked before, but I finally
  played or started playing Baba Is You. I don’t know that I enjoy it, but it is
  interesting to try and figure out the puzzle. I feel like I don’t know if I
  enjoy it, because it kind of feels like I’m doing work. It kind of feels like
  I’m coding, but I’m supposed to be playing a game. But yeah, it’s interesting
  to play around with the different rules and try to figure out a way to solve a
  problem. Yeah. I think the reason I’m ambivalent is because, as I’m saying it
  out loud, I’m realizing it reminds me of algorithms interviews, where you just
  have to find the route for a solution, and then you think about like, “Well,
  could I have done it in a nicer way?” But that’s the game I’ve been playing,
  yep.


  I think I had another pick but it went out of my mind because I wasn’t
  expecting to go first, so that’s my pick for the week.


  [00:47:20] AC: Sounded like a ringing endorsement. All right! Alex?


  [00:47:28] AR: My pick this week, it’s a slight deviation from my picks of the
  past. Recently, the Raspberry Pi Foundation has released a new raspberry pi
  called the Raspberry Pi Pico. It is a four-dollar microcontroller board. It
  looks super cool. It’s very bare-bones and it’s meant for like making
  electronics projects and stuff like that. That is my pick for this week,
  because it sounds really cool and I really, really want one.


  [00:48:08] T: That’s super awesome.


  [00:48:09] AC: Hint hint. No.


  [00:48:11] T: I mean, that’s what I heard.


  [00:48:13] AR: Hopefully this will be going out close to my birthday.


  [00:48:18] T: I also remembered my other pick. That reminded me, even that has
  nothing to do with Alex’s pick. It’s this book called [Inaudible 0:48:23]. I
  haven’t read through all of it, but I thought it was interesting. It reminded
  me of what Liz mentioned about boundaries, because the idea is that somebody
  is asking you a question but they’re not actually asking you a question. When
  you’re having a conversation with somebody and you’re annoyed at something
  that they said, but they didn’t actually say it. So, the idea is, what if you
  could put it into a question, would you find it acceptable or not? That’s how
  you can like kind of feel out what your boundaries are if you’re not sure.


  [00:48:53] AC: I’m going to pretend I understood that.


  [00:48:56] T: Sorry.


  [00:48:57] AC: I guess I’ll just have to read the book, which we all know I
  won’t. All right. Liz, do you have any picks for us?


  [00:49:05] LP: Yeah, I put a lot of picks, but I don’t have to do all of them.


  [00:49:09] AC: You can do all of them if you want.


  [00:49:12] LP: Okay. I was going to shoutout ADHD Alien and ADHD Comics, which
  I found through Twitter, for pushing me to try to get an ADHD evaluation this
  year, because I’m pretty sure I’m undiagnosed ADHD. Yeah, I don’t know if
  anyone is familiar with those.


  [00:49:35] AC: Yes. As someone who was diagnosed at age 9.


  [00:49:40] AR: Similarly, I keep on getting them and sending them to my wife
  and being like, “Hey! Look at this one,” and she’s like, “I don’t understand.”
  I’m like, “I know.”


  [00:49:54] T: Because I see all of them and I’m like, “Oh! I totally get it.”
  I didn’t realize there are people who didn’t get it.


  [00:50:00] LP: Okay. That’s what happened to me. I was on a team at a previous
  job where we were looking at one, and it was like, there were four of us or
  five of us. And four of us were like, “Oh, yeah. Like I identify with that,”
  but I just figured most people do. It’s just like, if you have ADHD, it must
  be like to an extent I don’t understand. Then one person on our team was like,
  “I don’t identify with that at all.” The two of us were that were like not
  diagnosed ADHD were like, “Are we ADHD?” So, yeah, that started me on a
  journey.


  [00:50:37] T: Nice.


  [00:50:38] LP: Another pick that I had was just knitting in general, possibly
  related to ADHD, but I found if I knit while I’m watching like videos or in
  meetings for work that I actually focus on the meeting. So I love knitting and
  I added a link in there that was like Twosome Learn to Knit Kits. 


  For Christmas, I got a Kobo, which is like a Kindle, but it’s not Amazon. It’s
  actually really nice, and I wanted to shout that out because I don’t know if
  people know that there is really nice e-ink readers that aren’t Kindles. This
  one, I got it for Christmas like I said, and I think of when we charged it
  once. So, it’s really nice and it’s like water resistant, because I like
  reading in the bath, if that is appropriate for your podcast.


  [00:51:33] T: It’s fine. I’m just flashing back to an episode where I was
  talking about — we had somebody talking about reading a book in a stream or
  something, like a river stream and I thought he was saying that he is putting
  a book in a Ziploc bag, and I was really stressing out about like how he would
  turn the pages. 


  [00:51:52] AC: It’s Chris, right?


  [00:51:52] T: Yeah. But Kobo also has a really nice price match guarantee,
  which I use all the time. It’s great. 


  [00:52:01] LP: Yeah. I’m really digging that thing. Another one – I feel like
  I’m just going on and on about random things.


  [00:52:10] T: That’s great.


  [00:52:11] LP: Okay. I threw on here this book that I’ve been reading a little
  bit because I’m trying to learn more about security stuff, and this book was
  recommended, called TCP/IP Illustrated, which is a thousand pages just about
  how the internet works, like literally how stuff gets from one place to
  another over the internet. I’m not a big text book or non-fiction reading
  person, but with my knitting trick, I’ve been trying to read a little bit. 


  [00:52:39] T: What weird trick?


  [00:52:39] LP: Try this one weird trick to read –


  [00:52:43] AC: I have never thought about trying to read while knitting,
  because yeah, in high school, the only way I could pay attention to class is
  if I was knitting. But I have to try that.


  [00:52:53] LP: Yeah, highly recommended. But yeah, the book is considered the
  standard kind of, for learning about TCP/IP, which is the protocol that we
  transmit stuff over the internet mostly. So, yeah, that book, I mean, you
  can’t beat it really. 


  Then my last pick was for Queens Majesty Hot Sauce, which I just ordered like
  a sampler pack of. I really like spicy food and I was like, “2021 is the year
  I’m going to get into hot sauce.” I asked a Twitter’s resident hot sauce
  expert and she gave me some suggestions.


  [Crosstalk 00:53:29]


  [00:53:29] T: Is it Sher?


  [00:53:30] AC: Guess who it was?


  [00:53:30] LP: Yeah, it was Sher. Of course, it will be Sher. It’s really,
  really tasty. My favorite one is, one that is red habanero and black coffee.
  There are three of them in there, but that one, it’s like, every time I’m
  like, which one of these three do I want to put in my food? I keep just going
  for that one and I’m going to run out soon, so yeah, it’s very good.


  [00:53:56] T: Nice. I feel like between your hot sauce and Alex’s salt, like
  we need to start requiring guests to bring on a condiment so we could just
  have the best tasting food.


  [00:54:05] AC: Speaking of Alex’s salt, I did end up ordering some sampler
  packs and I will vouch for it. I’m not technically picking it, because I don’t
  want to have to drop in in the show notes. So, we really have like really
  strict formatting rules now, that I’m just like, “Fewer picks are better.” 


  [00:54:23] T: Well, someone is salty.


  [00:54:27] AC: I’m lazy. ADHD, come on. Honestly, I have really severe ADHD.
  I’m on max dose of meds and it still not quite working, but that’s neither
  here or there. It means it’s my turn. I’m going to pick a standup special by a
  Comedian whom I have picked one of her specials before. It is Hannah Gadsby’s
  Nanette. I will that this one is not your typical standup special and that
  there are moments in it that are not funny, but in the best way. I laughed and
  I cried. We’ll put it that way. Also, since we are talking about art history,
  there’s a fair amount of art history in [inaudible 00:55:09].


  [00:55:09] T: Wow! It’s so good.


  [00:55:11] AC: Yeah. Hannah Gadsby’s Nanette, which you can find on Netflix. I
  believe that, with that, that means that is all for this week. Until next
  time, Enjoy the Vue.


  [END]
---
