---
episode-number: 6
episode-title: May the Forms be with You (feat. Marina Mosti)
date-published: 2020-03-02T21:23:52.572Z
cover-art: /uploads/enjoy-the-vue-cover-ep-6.png
sharing-link: 'https://www.enjoythevue.io/episodes/6/'
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
download-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/ebea7a82-444b-4511-8e5f-be7d3b459a0e.mp3
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/ebea7a82-444b-4511-8e5f-be7d3b459a0e.mp3
sponsor: Linode
picks:
  ari-picks: >-
    "Planisphere" by Justice,

    <a
    href="https://play.google.com/music/preview/Txpjfpvk3kw27vdkulqvkremgcy?play=1"
    target="_blank">Google Play</a>,

    <a
    href="https://open.spotify.com/album/0dLnnm4PjeyqM4CoHqo6DI?highlight=spotify:track:18IARgL5t0TkfCvARd8Ndn"
    target="_blank">Spotify</a>,

    <a
    href="https://music.apple.com/us/album/audio-video-disco/469202499?i=469202552&ign-gact=3&ls=1"
    target="_blank">Apple Music</a>
  ben-picks: 'My Hero Academia - Season 4,Miss Americana'
  chris-picks: TBD
  elizabeth-picks: >-
    <a href="https://cheatsheets.dev/" target="_blank">Cheatsheets.dev</a>,

    <a href="http://youmightnotneedjquery.com target="_blank">You might not need
    jQuery</a>
shownotes: >-
  This episode features a new guest Marina Mosti, author of the book "Build
  Forms with Vue.js." We get the opportunity to chat about forms in Vue, her
  writing process and her journey as a developer and educator.
transcript: >+
  Ben Hong:

  This podcast is brought to you by our friends at Linode. Whether you're
  working on a personal project, or managing your enterprise's infrastructure,
  Linode has the pricing, support and scale you need to take your project to the
  next level. Get started on Linode today, by going to Linode.com/Vue.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Hey everybody and welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I am Elizabeth Fine and today on
  our panel we have Ari Clark.


  Ari Clark:

  Hello.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Ben Hong.


  Ben Hong:

  Hello.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  And our special guest for this episode is Marina Mosti. Marina, would you like
  to introduce yourself?


  Marina Mosti:

  Hey, how are you doing? Absolutely. My name is Marina. I am a
  front-end/full-stack developer. I've had the pleasure of working with code for
  the last 14 years. I think I considered myself at this point... I tried to
  call myself an educator because it has become a really important part of my
  life to write about Vue and the articles, book and everything we're going to
  be talking about. And yeah, I'm a bass player. I enjoy music a lot. I do
  things. I do some things.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Oh that's cool.


  Ari Clark:

  I didn't know that. My husband plays the bass.


  Ben Hong:

  Yeah, me neither.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  So Marina, I know that you are, like you said, you're an educator, and you
  write a lot about Vue. So would you be able to tell us a little bit about how
  you started using Vue.


  Marina Mosti:

  Absolutely. How I started using Vue. So when I first got into coding I started
  out actually with PHP, which was a long, long time ago. Yes, very long time
  ago. And eventually I progressed through a bunch of different PHP frameworks
  which eventually led me to Laravel. Laravel actually bundled our way to use
  Vue inside of the framework. It didn't have a CLI. It wasn't like all the
  fancy tools we're using nowadays to make this whole SPA situation with
  front-end, but it did give you a very nice way to bundle up, to use Vue, and
  to inject your server-side rendered pages into your wrapper, and then start to
  view magic grid through that.


  Marina Mosti:

  So, because of what's already a part of this framework, it's like, hey this
  Vue thing sounds interesting. I was at this point where I would think most of
  the old school, I don't even know if it's old school, if it's 10 years ago,
  but I feel like some developers like myself just found themselves at this
  point where it was just clinging onto jQuery because that's what you know and
  you don't want to let go. And it came to a point where I was like, okay I need
  to learn a framework.


  Marina Mosti:

  I've got to admit that the first framework that I was trying to get into was
  Angular. But it was very confusing for me to get a hold of this Angular One,
  Angular Two situation going on there so I just figured, you know what, maybe
  I'll come back to this. So it just boiled down to React and Vue. I did like
  React, but again, as a jQuery developer, I very much not knew any JavaScript,
  so React seemed a little daunting at that time for me, and I started out
  working Vue because I already have the tools needed to at least start to
  understand what this framework is about.


  Marina Mosti:

  And then later on I came back to Angular and React to figure out what my
  favorite flavor in the ice cream world was. But I definitely stuck with Vue
  and I have not regretted that decision.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  So yeah, that's great, I like that you describe JavaScript frameworks as ice
  cream. I never thought about it that way, but I guess Vue would be pistachio
  ice cream, because [crosstalk 00:03:58] it's green.


  Marina Mosti:

  I would say avocado [crosstalk 00:04:02]


  Ben Hong:

  And React is blueberry?


  Ari Clark:

  I really like green tea ice cream, so I'm going to go with green tea ice
  cream.


  Ben Hong:

  Ooh, matcha.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Yeah, it's matcha ice cream for sure. Yeah so I'm interested in how you sort
  of transitioned into education within Vue because I know you wrote a series, I
  think it was called Hands On with Vue, and you've also written your book,
  Building Forms with Vue.js. So I'm curious about what made you start to want
  to become an educator and put out those resources into the ecosystem?


  Marina Mosti:

  And its actually been awhile. I started out a little bit more than a year ago,
  I would say around September or October of 2018 it was. My first approach into
  education was actually that I wanted to mentor other women into Vue and in
  JavaScript. I've had the fortune of never having worked in a company or
  environment in which women in tech had this misogyny problem or a very bro-y
  culture. I've had my couple of fights with people in companies that I've
  worked with before but nothing major and you hear some very sad stories from
  other women in tech, right? And I figured, I got a lot of help from different
  women in the community growing up, and finding better opportunities, and I
  wanted to do something to repay this to other women, right?


  Marina Mosti:

  So I started my look for other women to mentor in the Vue Vixens community at
  the time, and one of the things that I started building on for this goal, were
  some very small five minute to 10 minute workshops and exercises for very
  focused topics in Vue. I really don't remember, I think there was something
  with understanding the principles of Vuex, and just very oriented goals,
  right? Because they were small workshops, and at some point someone, I really
  don't remember who it was, I wish I did because that just kind of started
  everything, approached me and said, "Hey, these things that you're writing,
  they're very nice to read, they're very easy to follow. You should try writing
  an article."


  Marina Mosti:

  And at this point I felt like, it was a point in my life where I had a lot of
  time on my hands, and I figured hey, it might be a good idea to try to write
  something. Because I always wanted to adapt to other article sharing sites and
  I was reading all these amazing articles by other people in the community,
  just like JavaScript, React, everything, and I had this admiration for these
  people that could share the knowledge and putting it out there.


  Marina Mosti:

  So I took this as a personal challenge and I figured, "Hey, let's start small.
  Let's write a whole introduction series to Vue, and I kind of regretted it,
  but not later on because it was definitely a big bite to take for our first
  series of articles. But I'm sort of lying, I did have an article before that
  that covered date-fns, the library.


  Ben Hong:

  Ooh, I just used that today.


  Marina Mosti:

  I love date-fns. It's such [inaudible 00:07:26].


  Marina Mosti:

  So that one's my first article, and because I had gotten the hang of, hey,
  okay for me this process of writing is just like if I was speaking to someone
  and I just basically dump it on a page. It's like, okay, I'm going to go into
  Vue, and I'm going to try to make this series of articles, which was
  complicated? Not the part of writing it, but just into, how do I explain this
  when the audience that I'm trying to get to is people that have never, ever
  used Vue before, or that are starting to get into programming.


  Marina Mosti:

  And that is where I started realizing that there were a lot of missing
  resources that explained tech in a non-tech world. So all these amazing people
  that I had the privilege of working on, that have just gotten out of coding
  camps, or are just getting into tech and someone came and said to them, "Hey,
  there's this really beginner friendly framework that you can start using,
  which is Vue." But we have all these amazing resources like with
  Documentation, but they're not intended for beginners. They use technical
  language. They use and approach that assumes that you've had at least some
  hands on experience with coding, right?


  Marina Mosti:

  So I did this series of articles and that just sort of blew up because
  afterwards I started getting these messages on Twitter from random people
  saying, "Hey, I really appreciated your articles, it was great reading them,
  it was super clear, thank you for this. Which made me feel amazing and just
  wanting to write more. But also, I had the fortune of some people in companies
  that started engaging with me and saying, "Hey we really liked this work that
  you are doing, and we would like for you to write for us for our blog."


  Marina Mosti:

  One of those companies that I had the pleasure of starting to work with was
  actually Progress, and that was actually the moment in which this actually was
  not only my hobby, in which I was enjoying, but I was writing and sharing all
  these Vue things, this framework that I'm passionate about, but there's also
  this company that's paying me to do it, which I thought was amazing, because
  there's bills to be paid, fun to be had, and you need money for that, sadly.


  Marina Mosti:

  So I started writing for Progress. And soon enough, the truth is that at some
  point I worked for a company called VoiceThread. We do... I don't want to get
  into a whole lot of detail, but we create an education oriented tool that
  allows teachers and users to engage in a multimedia context in a timeline.
  It's very hard to explain with words. If you go to the website and click
  around the videos, I think it's just a lot clearer. But, I was trying to
  figure out what I wanted to do with my life at this point, due to some
  personal reasons, and I've lived in Mexico City, I'm Mexican, I've lived there
  for 33 years. I thought that there was a good time to make a change of pace
  for myself.


  Marina Mosti:

  So I was kind of looking to see if I was going to move to the U.S., or maybe
  come over to Europe, and there was an opportunity for me to get an O1 Visa in
  the United States, and someone mentioned to me, "Hey, if you have published a
  book, that gets you a lot of really cool people points for your Visa." And I
  was like, "Sure, why not, I mean that's like a really long article, right?"
  Yes, this was the beginning of all the mistakes. But writing a book is not
  like writing a very long article as I later found out. But you know, that's
  just the way I lied to myself to get this done, and I just started... I've
  heard, hey, what should I write about, and I was starting to do a bunch of
  research into forms, just basically because of personal annoyance with having
  to use websites and not being able to submit a form and having to hack it. And
  I was like, "Okay, I think there's a niche here. People that are upset because
  there is not good forms out there, right?"


  Marina Mosti:

  And I figured, okay, this is a very interesting topic, because I did some
  research... I did not find any form oriented books for Vue, and I was like,
  "Okay, well, I like this, let's do it." That is how the book was born. And
  moving on from that, I kept writing articles, and recently I became part of
  the Vue Mastery team and I'm writing blog articles for them as well which I'm
  really excited about. I just wrote my first article working on some really
  cool things that should be published soon, I hope, but I don't have the
  liberty to discuss them just yet.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Well I'm very excited to see what they are. So I will say, I loved your book
  on forms. You are absolutely a very clear writer and a very engaging writer,
  and I liked all the little funny parts that you threw in. I think there was
  one point where you said, it was something like, "When you don't know how to
  do something, you should just look at it and break it down into little pieces.
  But please don't try this in real life." And also I definitely learned a lot
  from your book. I don't want to summarize it, so if you would like to
  summarize it, we could start there, and then kind of discuss the topic.


  Marina Mosti:

  Sure, right. So what is this book about? It's about forms. Yay.


  Marina Mosti:

  I was trying to make the book sort of like a journey, right? And I could not
  not start from the very beginning of how to set up a Vue CLI project in your
  computer. Because this is the thing that I was talking about earlier, I cannot
  make the assumption that the reader will have this background knowledge,
  right? Because if you have it, you can skip it, or you can read through it
  really quick and have a refresher. But if you don't, and you open this book
  and you don't know how to set up your project, or one of the simple "things"
  that is like how do I create a reusable form components? Then you're going to
  be missing out in the rest of the book because I have to build up on these
  concepts, right?


  Marina Mosti:

  So the book just sort of takes you through setting up your project, taking the
  form into what is it simplest, simplest form like, how does a form work? What
  are the inputs? How do you bind into a form's input event? Most people, and I
  was part of this misconception, but most people will catch the click event or
  the submit button to do all the things you need to do, right? To do your form
  processing, your validation and everything, but the truth is that if you do
  that, you're going to have a problem with some screen readers which have the
  ability to submit the form directly, because they are going to try to submit
  your form through the form tag, not through your submit button, and then your
  form is going to misbehave and is just going to do it's natural thing and post
  all the data on the get array to your own webpage.


  Marina Mosti:

  And that is in the best case scenario that you have a form tag, because let's
  be honest, I've done it too, I've made forms that are not forms, they're a
  bunch of inputs, haphazardly thrown into a div with a button that is not even
  a submit button, and a bunch of JavaScript magic that makes it work.


  Ari Clark:

  I've never done that.


  Ben Hong:

  Who does that?


  Marina Mosti:

  For a minute I did not catch the sarcasm, and I was like, "Wow, I'm
  impressed."


  Ari Clark:

  No, definitely done that. Definitely done that.


  Marina Mosti:

  Which is great unless you need accessibility devices, and then you're kind of
  left behind. So, let's not do that. Let's just form tags.


  Marina Mosti:

  So it takes you into this basic, or "basic" notions that you have to know and
  that sometimes you can't glaze over because no one takes the time to actually
  put down the words. Then you go into how do I make a component? What is the
  simpler approach to making my inputs, my selects into components? How does
  v-model work? Some people that I met just say, "Yeah, this v-model is this
  magical thing," right? It just works. But when you ask them to separate it
  into input and binding, then it sort of breaks apart because it's like... But
  how? Why do I need to know this? So I took the time to go into how does
  v-model work into a custom component?


  Marina Mosti:

  Let me touch up on v-masking. V-mask library. So, masking of inputs, which I
  think is one of the easiest things to put into your form that is going to
  increment your user experience ten-fold. It is so easy to do and the payback
  is... What is the phrase? The juice is worth the squeeze?


  Ben Hong:

  I don't think I've ever heard that.


  Ari Clark:

  But I love it!


  Ben Hong:

  I like it. Yeah, I like it.


  Marina Mosti:

  So, definitely worth your time. Super easy to implement. V-mask is an amazing
  library. So, yeah.


  Ben Hong:

  No, it's good. I do have a question though. So for those who are as familiar
  with masking in forms, what does it mean to mask your input?


  Marina Mosti:

  Amazing. So you know where you're using services, like beautiful, beautiful
  services like Stripe, and you're typing in your credit card number and it sort
  of separates it into four, dash four, dash four, dash four slots for a
  numerical input, or you're typing in your month and expiration date and it
  just puts it really neatly for you, and it's super obvious that you're typing
  and you're not making mistakes because you don't have 16 digits just thrown in
  there? That is great user experience, and that is input masking. So what it
  means is that you're going to have this input, your user as they type, they're
  going to see their input formatted into a certain way that makes it easier for
  them, not only to understand what type of form they're filling, but what
  you're expecting out of them. Because if I'm writing, for example, a phone
  number, and this is a U.S. phone number, and I'm typing in the first few
  characters and I see that they're being put into a parenthesis, then I see
  that they're expecting an area code out of me.


  Marina Mosti:

  So it's a very nice way to communicate with the user, and it also serves as a
  "validation" method because it pre-validates your input with the mask. This
  does not mean, of course, that you should not afterwards validate the
  information. You always should validate. And that takes me to Chapter 5, which
  is How Do I Validate My Form? And I chose to go with Vuelidate, believe it or
  not I was not influenced with my being part of the Vuelidate team at this
  point


  Ben Hong:

  You don't say!


  Marina Mosti:

  Listen, confession time, I taught a workshop on Vue Toronto for forms
  actually, and I did make a parenthesis scribe saying, you know what I'm
  washing my hands and part of the Vuelidate team [inaudible 00:19:16] that was
  there with me, she's also part of the Vuelidate team, and we're using
  Vuelidate because it's good. And then I explained what are the reasons behind
  it, using Vuelidate and not Vee-lidate, which I just have to clear up right
  now in this podcast, I think Vee-lidate is an amazing library when you're
  trying to do validation that is template based. It just excels at it. It's so
  good at template based validation. But when you are trying to control
  validation through bindings, through v-model, or that your validation methods
  need to be put into something like Vuex for example, draw an external state,
  or dynamic forms, hint, hint, hint, this is why I picked it for this book,
  then Vuelidate better tool for the job. So I-


  Ari Clark:

  One second, if anyone is curious about a really great breakdown comparing
  Vuelidate with VeeValidate, Maria Lamardo's talk at Connect Tech this past
  year was great. We will include a link to that in the show notes, and spoiler
  alert, she thinks Vuelidate's better too. Sorry.


  Marina Mosti:

  I did clarify. I don't think it's better.


  Ari Clark:

  Well she definitely did.


  Marina Mosti:

  I just think they're both really great at what they do. I'm just going to
  leave it at that. I'm going to go with the politically correct answer.


  Ari Clark:

  It's very diplomatic. I appreciate that.


  Marina Mosti:

  Just use whatever's good for your project, right? Then, I talk about Vuex. How
  do you move your form's state to Vuex? And even more complicated is how do you
  validate the Vuex state? And this is where it starts getting into, I would say
  the quote on quote advanced part of the book because, Vuelidate in itself can
  get complex because of how the library has a third state, a touch method, it
  is not Concept that are like immediately obvious sometimes? And when you're
  working with a Vuex and a global state, then it just starts getting really
  crazy because, and I go back to the first part of my explanation of v-model,
  if you do not understand how v-model deconstructs, then you get into this
  point in the book and you're like whoa what is happening, right? So this is
  why I have to build up from the very basics.


  Marina Mosti:

  And finally, Chapter seven, how do I create a schema-driven form? That is a
  form that is created completely dynamically by reading through commonly a JSON
  file, because again, I cannot assume that everyone knows what a schema is,
  right? So I cannot go, what is a schema? Why would you use it? What are the
  circumstances into how you might encounter a necessity to build a
  schema-driven form in your job, or in this application that you're building.
  And not only how do you create this form based on a static JSON file, but
  what's going to happen, what are the differences that you're going to
  encounter if you're pulling it out of an API? What happens when you're working
  with a back end team that suddenly changed API and then the schema comes to
  you in a different way? Are you going to modify your entire front end every
  time the back end changes? Or are you going to have some sort of filter in the
  middle, some library, some script that parses this. So then we get into
  details of how you can have a render component in that sort of translates your
  back end into your front end.


  Marina Mosti:

  I think it's a very interesting topic because forms in itself, I've had a few
  people say, "But forms are so simple." And they should be.


  Ben Hong:

  We wish.


  Marina Mosti:

  They should be. I hope forms should be simple.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  I never think of forms as being simple.


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, whoever said that, good for them.


  Ben Hong:

  Yeah, good for you.


  Marina Mosti:

  You would be surprised. But just before my workshop in Toronto, I actually
  made a poll in Twitter just asking about, hands up, who here is an app
  developer and has had to hack a form in order to submit it? In a major
  website.


  Ben Hong:

  Oh I remember that!


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Oh yeah.


  Marina Mosti:

  The results were appalling. Appalling!


  Marina Mosti:

  Because you never hear from all the other poor users that can barely turn on
  their computer, let alone hack a form. And go through your console logs. And
  you're debugging statements that you forgot to remove from reproductions code,
  and fearing what went wrong. So, this is sort of what the book encompasses.


  Ari Clark:

  So I will say I actually bought your book because I needed it. I was not
  disappointed. So I have this use case, it was basically what you were just
  describing, where I can't guarantee that the API will be consistent. In fact
  it's almost guaranteed that additional fields will be added going forward. So
  I needed a way to dynamically generate this. And then on top of that I also
  needed a way to dynamically validate it. Yeah, you don't actually cover that
  specific case in your book, however I was able to piece together the patterns
  and actually accomplish that with the code that you present in Chapter seven.
  I just extended it with dynamic validations. So I found your book incredibly
  valuable. But no, you're absolutely right, there's nothing more annoying than
  having to completely redo your form every time the API changes, especially if
  you work at a start up where that might happen a lot.


  Marina Mosti:

  Oh yeah. So listen, now that you bring it up, shameless plug, I actually have
  an article that I hope will be published soon that will cover some ground
  rules about how to hookup dynamic validation into a schema-built form, but
  also a little heads up, so Damian has... Damian Dulisz in the Vuelidate team
  has actually been working a little bit on the next version of Vuelidate which
  brings in Vue 3's composition API, so it's like a complete re-write from the
  ground up. He's been speaking about it in a couple conferences. So I know that
  at least there's the video now for Vue Toronto which you can watch him talk
  about it a little bit.


  Marina Mosti:

  But also, I have this open source library called, well not me, sorry, the
  Vuelidate team has this library called FormVueLatte. Some people say
  FormVueLate. It's actually Latte because of the coffee. It was an inside joke
  that went horribly wrong. But officially, FormVueLatte. And this form actually
  can be open source version of this book so you just feed this sort of
  opinionated schema and it renders a form for you. And what we've been working
  on is a plug in type system in which you will inject Vuelidate into Formulate
  to create this crazy, crazy schema, automatic schema-driven, validated form.
  Just automatically out of the box for you.


  Ari Clark:

  Magical.


  Ben Hong:

  Wow!


  Marina Mosti:

  Super magical. It's going to be super magical. But it's still in the works,
  hopefully we will get it shipped soon after Vue 3 releases, or maybe a little
  bit before, I don't know yet, I cannot comment on that. But it is definitely
  in the works. I'm very excited about it. Damian has been doing and fantastic
  job with it.


  Ben Hong:

  So I had a question for you, Marina. Just to circle back a bit. You mentioned
  that writing in a blog was not at all like writing a really long article. Can
  you elaborate on that a little bit more?


  Marina Mosti:

  I think one of the most daunting but also enlightening parts of writing a book
  was working with a publisher. I say enlightening just not to say really hard,
  complicated, and then sometimes frustrating as hell, but I have had,
  thankfully, the complete creative flexibility when I'm writing my articles
  with Progress, it's just I love what I do, thankfully. So I don't get a lot of
  criticism back. I know they polish it a little bit. I probably have a lot of
  grammar mistakes and spelling mistakes and just non-native English mistakes
  that they polish through, but I never had a person sit and look at my work and
  say, "Okay, this is very nice but we need to format it."


  Marina Mosti:

  And the whole formatting experience was for me, and I'm speaking obviously of
  my own personal opinion on this, very frustrating. Why? Because I have made it
  on purpose almost like a signature of mine that my articles are written in a
  very, I don't know how to say this in English so I'm just going to try to
  explain it, but like if I was speaking to you.


  Ben Hong:

  Conversational?


  Marina Mosti:

  Conversational. Thank you. So, this to my publisher looked a lot like what
  they thought should be printed out as a bunch of, like a recipe, like a
  cooking recipe. Step number one, put this code in your component. Step number
  two, run this in your browser and check. Step number three... And, I did not
  agree with that. Because it sort of broke the flow of the conversation. And I
  did not want this book to completely break the rhythm of what I like to write
  because one of the most fulfilling parts for me as a writer and as a writer of
  technology and as someone that I have tried to make my articles mostly
  oriented to beginners because like I mentioned, I think that's where the most
  lacking niche is, I don't want this to break that pattern. Because, I'm sorry
  I sort of went on a tangent there, because the important thing to me is that
  when people have approached me with comments about my articles they have all
  this then around the topic of, I like how you approach things, because it's
  very easy to understand, it's easy to follow. It's not very tech.


  Marina Mosti:

  Sometimes you have to go into the explanations. Sometimes you have to go deep
  into the code, but that does not mean that you can not try to make it
  enjoyable. So that is why I sometimes try to sprinkle things like World of
  Warcraft into my articles because that is what... Programmers are people.
  People that like things, they listen to music, they play video games, and when
  you're just talking to them in their language in things that they enjoy, then
  suddenly this thing that you also enjoy that is programming, becomes a whole
  experience.


  Marina Mosti:

  So, coming back to your question, when I had to get into the part of actually
  reviewing the book, of making it a book and not an article, I struggled
  personally because of my intent to go against my own publisher, which I
  probably should not have. We found a middle ground. Eventually we found a
  middle ground. But there was a lot of friction. But eventually I think I'm
  happy with what came out of it. They did a great job in putting some order
  into my chaos, but they were flexible enough to let a little bit of the crazy
  remain.


  Ben Hong:

  Well that's great, thank you for answering that. I know that Ari, Elizabeth,
  and I are very grateful that your personality could shine through because it'd
  be a very different read if it had been that recipe format that you were
  mentioning.


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, let's face it, forms aren't the most exciting thing in the world.


  Ben Hong:

  What? You don't wake up excited every day? Like, "Oh I'm going to build some
  forms!"


  Ari Clark:

  In fact, anytime I have to do work with forms I'm like, "Noooo! Noooo!" But I
  have to say I did enjoy working through your book, and I actually did, I did
  every single thing that was in the book, which-


  Marina Mosti:

  Oh my God. Thank you for that. Thank you, thank you.


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, which is why I did catch a couple of typos in there. But I told you
  about them so it's okay.


  Marina Mosti:

  Girl, there's typos, there's code mistakes... You review, you review, you
  review, you have other people review, and still-


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, you're still going to miss stuff. I'm so impressed that there were as
  few as there were.


  Marina Mosti:

  Yeah, if you don't shape a book with bugs, you're not a programmer, right?


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, the day that I shape something bug free is the day that I quit forever.


  Marina Mosti:

  Yes, exactly. I agree.


  Ari Clark:

  So you've really focused on catering towards beginners. I think that is such
  an underserved niche, partly because I at least find it really hard to put
  myself in those shoes again. Because at some point you have the curse of
  knowledge. And you don't remember what you didn't know at particular stages.
  So, are there any techniques that you use to try to make sure that you're
  breaking things down to a level that's digestible to someone new to
  programming in general? Or are you just really good at that naturally and
  you're amazing?


  Marina Mosti:

  That's a good question.


  Ari Clark:

  I mean honestly, that is true.


  Marina Mosti:

  Thank you. I think that, and again I really want to thank Progress for all of
  the creative freedom that I've had because I think the way that I've chosen my
  topics has been a natural flow of how I learned Vue. So because I started with
  this, "Hey, let's get into Vue," series. This basic series. And then I
  figured, okay, what is the next logical step once you know these things?


  Marina Mosti:

  Oh, hey let's touch a bit into detail about, I don't know, computer
  properties. And, oh now that I did the computer properties, maybe I should do
  this other thing. And now that I did this other thing, maybe I can touch Vuex,
  and now that I did Vuex, hey let's talk about managing your global states
  through this other thing. So I've just had this flow where I wouldn't say that
  they necessarily build on each other, I mean you can sort of read through my
  articles and they might hint at things that I've written about in the past,
  some of them even linked to my own resources or resources that I found very
  helpful when writing the articles, but definitely this flexibility that I had
  about writing about what I want to write, has made it simpler to create for
  myself this idea of, "I'm going to write about this because I've already
  written about these other things," and I always, when I start writing an
  article, I try to make the first paragraph like, "Okay, what is the real world
  problem that I'm trying to solve?"


  Marina Mosti:

  So, for example, this article that just got published for Vue Mastery, the
  first paragraph says, "Hey, have you ever had this problem where you're
  filling out a form and then for some reason you hit the backspace key and you
  were not in an input, and then you lose everything?" This is a real world
  problem.


  Marina Mosti:

  So now that I've established, hey what are we trying to solve with this
  article, then I ask myself, hey okay, what knowledge do I have to assume? What
  topics can I not go into depth because they're going to go out of scope when
  I'm writing this? Then I try to declare that in the beginning of the article.
  "Hey, I'm going to assume at this point that you understand, I don't know,
  that you have the basic concepts of Vuex." And then if later on in the article
  I have to go into local storage then I might say, hey I'm going to assume that
  you have worked with cookies before, for example. And if you don't, here's
  some links or here's some resources that you can read to catch yourself on,
  because if you proceed past this point, I will assume that you know what I'm
  talking about because I can not... It's a never ending story the scope of what
  you're trying to teach.


  Marina Mosti:

  So I think always question yourself. Am I assuming knowledge here? And if so,
  what knowledge am I assuming? And this is by no means perfect. I am sure that
  if I go back to my articles and I analyze them, that I assumed some things, or
  that I used a technical word somewhere. But I think for me this thing started
  because one day I was having, and this is not that far behind in time, I was
  having a conversation with Natalia at the [inaudible 00:36:47] and she said,
  "You should use the higher order function," and I was like, "What?"


  Ben Hong:

  A hawk. Don't you know what a hawk is?


  Ari Clark:

  Oh that's even worse when someone calls it [crosstalk 00:36:55]...


  Marina Mosti:

  Yeah, and it's like what the hell is a higher order function? And she just
  explained it to me and I was like, "Oh, a function that raises a function,
  yeah," but I had never heard this term before in my life. And I don't think I
  can consider myself a novice programmer anymore, I've been doing this for 14
  years. But I did not have a background in computer science. I actually studied
  how to administrate a restaurant, believe it or not.


  Marina Mosti:

  And so I have a bunch of gaps and holes into terminology sometimes in computer
  science, like what is a higher order function? So, I try not to use a lot of
  this terminology but also I am probably a culprit in my own thing that I'm
  trying to fix, right? You try your best, you do your best. And then eventually
  just getting the flow of it, and it just becomes very natural.


  Ari Clark:

  I think you really hit on how what I consider to be one of the biggest
  problems in a lot of tech articles is the use of Foo, Bar, and Baz. If I'm
  learning a concept, it helps me so much more if I can relate it to a real
  world problem.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Not even that, but real world words. Rather than just completely made up
  words. If you said cat, dog, and mouse it would be easier for me.


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah because there's a relationship. There's a relationship between words that
  sort of helps you identify relationship between concepts. So yeah, good on you
  for recognizing that that's the way to go.


  Marina Mosti:

  Earlier I was just writing an article that is going to touch up a little bit
  on the Vue 2 activity system. Believe it or not I actually found a way to
  explain the concept of object.defineproperty with avocado sandwiches and
  toast.


  Ari Clark:

  That sounds amazing.


  Ben Hong:

  I want to see that article.


  Ari Clark:

  Yes.


  Marina Mosti:

  It is crazy. I hope that it is clear, I'm going to try to test it soon, I will
  give you a preview.


  Ben Hong:

  So now we need Sarah to do an avocado animation where it like pops out the
  seed and then is a reactive chain.


  Marina Mosti:

  Yeah, it's going to be cool. But yeah it's so engaging and so fun for me to
  try to figure out these crazy examples. I don't want to do another counter,
  another to do list, oh my God, this whole Vue 3 example with the mouse
  coordinates, if I see it one more time, I swear.


  Ben Hong:

  That is true, that is a pretty prolific example.


  Marina Mosti:

  It is. But I'm sorry, Elizabeth you were going to say something.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Oh I was just going to say, one of my main sticking points with forms,
  especially dynamic forms, is the styling. So I just feel like, especially if
  you have a design that's got full length input fields and then some half input
  fields that are next to each other, and so those half input fields need to be
  inside a flex box or something. And then you've got select boxes thrown in, or
  textareas thrown in, and I feel like my style sheets for things like that just
  become absolute nightmares and then you have to deal with it all responsive
  where the half width fields go full width, and I'm just, I don't know-


  Ari Clark:

  Want to know what's really fun? When you also have to have a unit selection as
  part of another input. That gets real, yeah. I have lived this. I don't think
  I did it well, but it works.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  I'm just wondering, is there any way to do that well? Marina, with
  FormVueLatte, for example, so you're saying you can use a schema to sort of
  generate a dynamic form using that library. Does that cover or help with CSS
  at all or do you have suggestions for dealing with CSS and dynamic forms?
  Maybe the answer is just don't do stuff like half width inputs and things like
  that.


  Marina Mosti:

  I have made it an ongoing joke and a point in my articles that my examples are
  ugly because I have zero visualize intelligence and because there is no right
  way to do CSS, okay?


  Ari Clark:

  Yes, thank you!


  Marina Mosti:

  I'm guessing if you go to someone really smart like Sarah Drassner she could
  probably explain CSS to you. Girl, I struggle. I do dynamic forms.


  Ari Clark:

  That makes me feel so good.


  Marina Mosti:

  It might work as well as... I'm guilty, they're ugly. The CSS... We use
  Tailwind actually, I really like Tailwind as an option for dynamic forms just
  because the way that you can construct the CSS with classes makes it simple in
  some scenarios to control through a scheme. Not that I'm saying that you
  should inject classes into your schema and then put them in your inputs, which
  could be a thing, right? But once you start getting into the rabbit hole of
  let's have the back-end control the graphicness of the form, then it starts to
  get really ugly and I don't have a catch all response for you. My response is,
  do what everyone does, close your eyes, and click around until it works.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  You're going to have an ugly form or a really ugly CSS file. Preferably a
  really ugly CSS file, in my opinion. But at least you can clean up, using that
  sort of solution, you can cleanup the JavaScript and the validation and
  everything like that, and then you're just left with the CSS file that's...
  you know?


  Marina Mosti:

  Yeah, absolutely.


  Ari Clark:

  I'll tell you how I deal with it. Like I said, Marina I struggle with CSS so
  I'm not going to promise you that this is the best way ever but this is a
  functional way that I have found. Usually based on schema you can infer at
  least some things. Like for example, if you know that it's a capacity input
  that is going to need units selected alongside it, you can conditionally apply
  certain classes to it based on if certain criteria is met, so I honestly used
  dynamic class finding to address a lot of that. But like I said, there's
  probably better ways. But sometimes you do it ugly ways because it works.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Yeah, that sounds like a good solution, if you can build that into the model
  of your schema, any kind of particular CSS cases and then just dynamically
  bind those classes and then go into your CSS file and have a bunch of
  conditional classes.


  Marina Mosti:

  I think you're touching up on a very interesting subject which is, don't be
  afraid to create a wrapper component that is more specialized. I think it's a
  little bit of what you're saying, Ari. Like, okay you have your base input,
  and your base input for some reason needs to have the specific look and feel,
  then make a component that will match this specific needs and declare it in
  your back-end or your schema. And to address the Flexbox needs, remember that
  you can also make containers. And these containers can have your own render
  component inside them. So your container receives a schema of the nested
  children that are going to be in this container, and maybe this container
  knows that it has to apply a Flexbox. Or it knows that if it has a property of
  50, that it needs to meet 50% and create some sort of CSS magic inside of it.
  So I think that's a great suggestion Ari, don't ever be afraid of creating a
  more speciality component or a more specific component to what you need.


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, another thing, so I think this is mostly just because I don't know
  Flexbox but I know CSS Grid. I will use Grid for things I probably shouldn't
  use it for, but it works, so I do it. But also, CSS Grid allows you to
  position and layout things in a very declarative way, so one thing I know I
  have done, is I have passed in a string of numbers or 1FR, 2FR, 1FR, and then
  just dynamically bound that to a style in the form because I could do it
  declaratively based on the schema. Again, maybe not the prettiest way to do
  it, but functional. I'm all about just making things work, okay?


  Ben Hong:

  You know, Ari, not all of us only have to support Chrome, okay?


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah, sorry.


  Ben Hong:

  That's why you can use Grid. The rest of us over here being like, "That
  doesn't work in IE."


  Ari Clark:

  Well, that's your fault for having a product that people with IE use. I'm just
  saying. Totally kidding. Judgement.


  Ben Hong:

  That would be amazing to just do Grid out of the box.


  Ari Clark:

  It is amazing, I'm not going to lie.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  So Marina, where can people find you on the internet?


  Marina Mosti:

  I think the best way to approach me is through Twitter. My handle is
  @MarinaMosti. I have some articles in Dev.to. I usually end up cross posting
  there. Obviously like I mentioned I have a lot of articles also on the Telerik
  blog. And now on the Vue Mastery blog. You can find my articles all over the
  place, girl.


  Ben Hong:

  Love it.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  And where can people find your book? Building Forms with Vue.js.


  Marina Mosti:

  To my knowledge, there's two ways of buying it. One of them is through Amazon,
  and you can also buy it directly from Pact, in their portal, you can buy the
  PDF version if that's what you're looking for. Or the printed version through
  Amazon should be the easiest way.


  Ari Clark:

  You can actually buy the PDF and the hard copy through Pact, just saying. In a
  bundle. It was really great.


  Marina Mosti:

  Thank you for clarifying that.


  Ari Clark:

  Yeah we'll drop that in the show notes.


  Marina Mosti:

  I hope Pacts not listening.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  So does anyone have any final questions for Marina before we wrap up and move
  on to Picks?


  Ari Clark:

  I think we're good, she's been amazing.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Yeah this has been so informative, thank you Marina.


  Marina Mosti:

  No thank you for inviting me.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Okay and so with that it is time for us to move on to Picks. Ari, would you
  like to go first?


  Ari Clark:

  So continuing with my music to code to series of Picks, this one is a very
  long song, at almost 18 minutes, Planisphere by Justice... Yeah, it's
  incredible. So, fun fact, I didn't know this until today when I was googling
  links to throw into the show notes to find in Spotify, Apple Music, whatever,
  apparently it was originally released in three parts, which if you listen to
  it that very much makes sense. Because I always knew that it very much had
  this feel of movements in it, like same theme but building on it in a
  different way.


  Ari Clark:

  So originally it was three separate songs but it works as one continuous song
  as well. So it's sort of... It has classical influences, some of these funk
  influences, at times the synth becomes very sinister so it feels very heavy
  metal. It's like a little bit of everything in there, I can't even do it
  justice, but at almost 18 minutes it's a really good song for when you're in a
  flow, so I highly recommend Planisphere by Justice and that is all I have this
  week.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Wonderful. Okay, Ben, what are your picks for this week?


  Ben Hong:

  Yeah, I have two picks for you all this week. My first one which is, for those
  who are into Anime, My Hero Academia Season four, I've known some people who
  complain about the pacing, it's a little bit different from the first three
  seasons, but they really turn a corner towards the end, it was really good
  character build up and stuff, and so really enjoying what they're doing with
  that, so really happy with it and highly recommend it. And the other pick I
  had, which I'm a little sad Chris is not here for-


  Ari Clark:

  I almost picked this just to mess with you guys.


  Ben Hong:

  So we all watched Ms. Americana actually, which is the Netflix Taylor Swift
  documentary.


  Ari Clark:

  But I was like, oh God wouldn't it be funny if I picked it? But it was very
  good.


  Ben Hong:

  Yeah.


  Ari Clark:

  I'm not a Taylor Swift fan but I actually enjoyed it. You must be so proud.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Both of you were not in our Taylor Swift club.


  Ben Hong:

  Hold on, hold on. I was more so than Ari.


  Ari Clark:

  Wow.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Ben was closer.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  I would say Ben is now in the Taylor Swift Club. Ari are you in the Taylor
  Swift club yet?


  Ari Clark:

  I have always appreciated that she is incredibly talented and I have
  tremendous respect for her, it's just not something I would listen to on a
  daily basis. But I have even more respect for her now, okay? [crosstalk
  00:50:35]


  Ben Hong:

  So for those wondering, Ms. Americana is more about just about like... It's
  really about learning about Taylor Swift sort of as a person, and really her
  journey as far as... And that was what I thought was most interesting about it
  was learning about everything she's been through as a musician from a child
  and how she got to where she is, so even from that, it was just super
  educational in that regard and just insane to learn about what life would be
  like when you become famous and the fact that you're kind of frozen at that
  age because you're basically on tour.


  Ben Hong:

  And just all these things that just really helped to humanize her and I'm not
  going to lie, a lot of things hit really close to home. I identify with a lot
  of her problems so it makes me have to wonder.


  Ari Clark:

  I'm not going to lie, I thought about you, which is talking about something
  else. That's so Ben!


  Ben Hong:

  I was like, "Oh gosh." I think I have that problem too. Anyways, Ms.
  Americana, totally worth checking out. [inaudible 00:51:30] [crosstalk
  00:51:30] Anyhow Elizabeth, onto you.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  I love it. Okay, so my pick this week, I have one, is cheatsheets.dev. So it's
  a website and it basically has code snippets from various different languages,
  also git code snippets as well, so its pretty helpful and we'll drop that in
  the show notes. And you can just bookmark it especially if you're new to git
  or something like that or if you are a JQuery developer for example trying to
  figure out, how can I do things in JavaScript that I could do in JQuery? This
  is kind of helpful.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  On a second note, I know of a website called, shoot I don't remember the exact
  name, but we'll drop it in the show notes its called You Can Do That and You
  Don't Need JQuery for that or something. Ben's typing it. You know what I'm
  talking about?


  Ben Hong:

  Yeah I know exactly what you talking about.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  So basically its awesome, you type in the JQuery sort of method that you're
  trying to recreate and it just reactively pulls up the JavaScript version of
  it, so it's pretty helpful. You Don't Need JQuery, something like that.


  Ari Clark:

  It's pretty cool. I started with JQuery, I did.


  Ben Hong:

  You Might Not Need JQuery.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  YouMightNotNeedJQuery.com.


  Ari Clark:

  And Marina, does Marina have any picks?


  Elizabeth Fine:

  And Marina, do you have any picks?


  Marina Mosti:

  I actually have two books that I wanted to recommend. One of them is The Power
  by Naomi Elderman. Oh my God. Such a great book. It has a feminist vibe to it,
  so that's really amazing. And [crosstalk 00:52:56] I don't want to spoil it or
  something, but it is a very nice sci-fi type... Not sci-fi, but it is a
  criticism on the contemporary world, of course, and what would happen if all
  of a sudden the physical prowess went to women. Amazing read, amazing read.
  It's not feminist propaganda. It's just so good. Read it. You will enjoy it.


  Marina Mosti:

  The other book that I was going to recommend is The Jedi Path because I am
  such a nerd. Oh my God this book is so good. It's actually called, the full
  name is The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force. And it is not a
  book, book like a novel, it is like if you were reading [crosstalk 00:53:46]
  the actual book that they gave to Jedis when they were training them. Oh my
  God, I am nerding so hard over this. I think there's one for the Sith and for
  the Imperial, for joining the Imperial Forces, which I'm of course going to
  read, but I'm reading this one right now and I'm enjoying it a lot so
  definitely super recommended.


  Marina Mosti:

  And finally, a shameless plug, if you have not heard or used Formulate, please
  check it out, and obviously if you want to contribute, we're always looking
  for people to make PRs and test it out, and give us comments and feedback
  because we want to make the library better. So yeah, we have open source.


  Elizabeth Fine:

  Thank you so much, Marina, and that is all for this week's episode. Thanks for
  listening and until next time, enjoy the Vue.


  Ben Hong:

  This podcast is brought to you by our friends at Linode with 11 data centers
  worldwide including the newest data center in Sydney, Australia. Enterprise
  grade hardware has three compatible storage option, and their next generation
  network, Linode delivers the performance you expect at a price that you don't.
  Get started on Linode today, by going to Linode.com/Vue.
---

