---
episode-number: 62
episode-title: Shaving Yaks with Anthony Fu
date-published: 2021-05-24T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-62.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: Coming soon
picks:
  - person: Alex Riviere
    picks:
      - title: Autonomous.ai standing desks
        website: 'https://www.autonomous.ai'
  - person: Ari Clark
    picks:
      - title: 'Schitt''s Creek, CBC (Netflix)'
        website: 'https://www.netflix.com/title/80036165'
  - person: Ben
    picks:
      - title: Icones.js.org
        website: 'http://icones.js.org'
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - title: 'A Short Hike (Windows, MacOS, Linux, Nintendo Switch)'
        website: 'https://ashorthike.com'
      - title: 'Anybody else''s brain do this?, Joshua Neal'
        website: 'https://twitter.com/joshuaneall/status/1351295209536061445'
      - title: >-
          Code Reviews: Honesty, Kindness, Inspiration: Pick 3, Jacob Stoebel
          (RubyConf 2017)
        website: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hP_2XKYia9I'
      - title: Dodow
        website: 'https://www.mydodow.com/dodow/en-us/home'
shownotes: >-
  **Overview:**


  Yak shaving is a term that refers to a task that leads you to perform another
  related task and so on, all distracting you from your original goal. While the
  experience this term describes sounds like a drag at first, moments like these
  played a central role in some of Anthony Fu’s biggest contributions to the
  programming community. Anthony is part of the core Vue.js team where he
  maintains its composition API, has helped build the Wenyan Lang VS Code
  extension, and he also the author of Vueuse, a collection of composable
  functions for Vue. In our conversation with Anthony, we hear about his yak
  shaving adventures and how they led him to create all of his amazing projects.
  We talk about our different experiences with yak shaving and Anthony shares
  his take on it. For him, yak shaving is about testing things out that you
  might otherwise overlook, an approach that often leads to creative discovery.
  We hear about Anthony’s road into Vue development while at college and how it
  led him to join the core Vue team. We talk about some exciting new
  developments in the Vue space and hear about Anthony’s enthusiasm for Vite as
  well as some of the contributions he has already made to the environment. So
  for all this and more in a conversation as packed with yak metaphors as it is
  with Anthony’s cool projects, tune in today!


  **Key Points From This Episode:**

  - Introducing Anthoy Fu and his contributions as a member of the core Vue
  team.

  - Anthony’s explanation of ‘yak shaving’ followed by stories of yak shaving
  experiences.

  - Yak shaving experiences of Anthony’s and why he enjoys it more than doing
  actual work.

  - Viewing yak shaving as a form of trying things out to see if they are good
  ideas or not.

  - An explanation of Vueuse, and examples of some of its Vue composition
  utilities.

  - How Anthony got involved with Vue and open source during his college days.

  - What Anthony is most excited about in the Vue system looking forward: Vite!

  - Features about Vite that Anthony is excited about and his contributions to
  the space.

  - How everybody deals with new ideas; whether they track them and act on them.

  - Whether the team get other people to do their yak shaving for them!

  - When to go down the rabbit hole or put everything on the yak burner!

  - This week’s picks; standing desks, yak shaving videos, and more.


  **Tweetables:**

  - “Yak shaving refers to attacks that leads you to perform another related
  attacks, and so on and so on, all detracting you from the original goal.” —
  @antfu7 [0:01:12]

  - “Vue Use is a collection of Vue composition APIs, composable functions that
  could be reused.” — @antfu7 [0:10:53]

  - “I had heard about Vue, but I didn't try it. At that time, I thought jQuery
  works fine, why try a new thing? Then it tried it. Yeah, after and doing a few
  other projects, I got obsessed with it immediately.” — @antfu7 [0:18:21]


  **Anthony's picks:**

  - [Hal replacing a light bulb](https://youtu.be/8fnfeuoh4s8), Malcom in the
  Middle

  - [Cyberpunk 2077](https://www.cyberpunk.net) (Xbox One, PlayStation 4, PC,
  Stadia)


  **Resources Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**

  - [Anthony Fu](https://antfu.me/)[Anthony Fu on
  Twitter](https://twitter.com/antfu7)

  - [Anthony Fu on GitHub](https://github.com/antfu)

  - [Vueuse](https://github.com/vueuse/vueuse)

  - [i18n
  Ally](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Lokalise.i18n-ally)

  - [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/#overview)

  - [A Fly Went
  By](https://www.amazon.com/Fly-Went-Beginner-Books/dp/0394800036)

  - [Ionic](https://ionicframework.com/vue)

  - [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en)
transcript: >-
  EPISODE 62


  [INTRO]


  [00:00:00] AR: This episode is brought to you by Ionic. For more information,
  please see ionicframework.com/vue


  [EPISODE]


  [00:00:20] T: Hi, everybody. Welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I’m Tessa. Today on our
  panel, we have Ari.


  [00:00:25] AC: Hello.


  [00:00:26] T: Ben.


  [00:00:27] BH: Hello.


  [00:00:28] T: Alex.


  [00:00:30] AR: Hello.


  [00:00:32] T: Our special guest for this episode is Anthony Fu. Anthony, would
  you like to introduce yourself?


  [00:00:37] AF: Hey, everyone. My name is Anthony Fu. I'm a Vue coding member.
  In Vue, I’m maintaining the composition API plugin for Vue 2. You may also
  know me as the author of Vueuse, a collection of composable functions for Vue.
  I'm quite into Vue 2 recently, and I've made a few plug inputs. Yeah. Thanks
  for having me here.


  [00:01:01] BH: Glad to have you here.


  [00:01:02] T: Yeah, Anthony. I think that you mentioned before we started
  recording that you're here to talk about Yak shaving. Does anyone know what
  that refers to?


  [00:01:11] BH: What's a yak?


  [00:01:12] AF: Yeah. Yak shaving refers to attacks. That leads you to perform
  another related attacks, and so on and so on. All detracting you from the
  original goal. Where you actually need and use the tools. You are more likely
  to make it great. My idea of turning Yak shaving from detracting to productive
  is to make the tool just good for your need first. Don't over engineer.


  Move on and get back to later to improve the design and implementation. Before
  making it too, always do some quick research, in case there are something good
  already there. I also think it’s a good way to make your tool open source. As
  a problem, you have faced, are likely to happen to someone else, who is the
  great community you are – even gather your tools improved, then it sharpens.
  That could have solved more problems for more people.


  [00:02:06] T: Very cool. Yeah. I feel like, there's a lot of children's books
  that are reminiscent of Yak shaving, like the book A Fly Went By, or any of
  those, where one character is going somewhere. Then by the end of the story,
  there's a train of characters following them somewhere. I'm curious for
  everyone in the group, what your examples of, or what have been your
  experiences with Yak shaving.


  [00:02:32] AC: A recent example for me was – I was just doing some regular
  task, some Vue component. I started my job three months ago. You know how it
  is, like getting your dev environment fully set up. It takes three, four, or
  five months. That includes things ES lint configs, in the project. I was
  getting really annoyed with VS code, because it kept not formatting things the
  way I wanted it to automatically. I was used to everything being all set up.
  That led down the rabbit hole of trying to get the ES lint and prettier
  configs all set up. Only it wasn't going well. I ended up having to just
  abandon that to actually do the thing I was supposed to do. I went back later
  and fixed the ES lint configs. That was an adventure.


  [00:03:21] AF: Yeah, I can feel that.


  [00:03:22] AC: Yeah. Right?


  [00:03:25] BH: Formatting is hard.


  [00:03:27] AR: Yeah. Recently for us, we've been using a Vuex store to make a
  lot of API calls. We started realizing that a lot of them were the same
  format. They made me start working on a new section and I started writing this
  boilerplate all over again. I said, “Wait a minute. Hold on.” That whole PR
  became this whole separate thing of I made a system of helpers, so that
  anytime that you want to do this pattern, you just bring in this thing. Then
  that turned into well, but then we need to be able to extend it. There became
  a plugin system to it, because well, some of them need to be auto-refreshed
  and some of them don't need to be. It was this whole thing. It was just this
  total rabbit hole. We have this really great system now.


  [00:04:18] T: Nice. How about you, Ben?


  [00:04:21] BH: Gosh, yeah. When it comes to Yak shaving, I think I am guilty
  of what Ari brought up regarding, if my editor doesn't look exactly the way I
  want it, I just see red, and I have to fix it. When I click save and it
  doesn't automatically put all the attributes on individual lines.


  [00:04:38] AC: Don't even get me started.


  [00:04:41] BH: God help me if the syntax highlighting doesn't work for
  whatever reason. I'll just stop working. I think that's my biggest Achilles
  heel when it comes to doing work. Which is funny, because when I started doing
  this HTML development stuff, I used to use plain notepad editor and now I'm
  just so spoiled and never again. What about you, Tessa?


  [00:04:59] T: Yeah. I remember thinking that using notepad was somehow a sign
  of strength, even though at the time, it wasn't like I had any alternatives. I
  could have downloaded Notepad++. In my mind, that was just another notepad, so
  why bother? I think there are definitely a lot of things that I do that are
  Yak shaving-adjacent, but they feel slightly different. Because for example,
  with the code editor stuff, sometimes I need to get my settings down.


  Then sometimes, you have an interview in CodeSandbox and the default font is
  Dank Mono, and you're just like, “I’ll change that outside of the interview
  next time.” Or when you're writing a paper and you're like, “I got to nail
  that typeface choice first.” I just don't like the inconsistency across the
  letters.


  [00:05:42] AC: You're such a Dank Mono hater. Well see, now I'm not going to
  be able to unsee that. Thanks, Tessa.


  [00:05:49] T: I think other areas where I feel my behaviors are similar, but
  it's not quite the same are, for example, a recent talk I gave where what I
  really needed to do was get down all the content and the shape of the talk.
  Because I didn't know what the design style of the slides was going to look
  like, I found it really hard to just put down the information, because I knew
  that even though the part that was blocking me was putting down the content,
  if I put that into the content first and then came back and did the design
  later, that would be a lot more work than if I just figured out a good enough
  theme now, and then put in the content and did fine tuning later.


  In a lot of community organizing and coding stuff as well, there's a lot of
  issues like that, where you think you know the thing that you need to work on.
  Then, it turns out that you're not looking at the right level of the problem
  and you have to maybe move up or move down a step. Then other times, like when
  I'm cleaning or something, then I get into, “Well, I need to clean this
  thing,” but then it'd be so perfect if everything had its own container, which
  is not realistic. Then I just give up, or I'll see task after task after task
  and have a running to-do list in my head. I'm like, Yak shaving in the list in
  my head, but not in real life.


  [00:07:03] AC: Yeah, I feel like, cleaning is the stereotypical example that
  comes to mind for me when I think about Yak shaving in a negative way. Because
  yeah, an hour later and only a corner of my desk will be clean. Because that
  one corner is super organized.


  [00:07:18] BH: You got a whole corner?


  [00:07:19] AC: A bunch of other things are half organized.


  [00:07:21] BH: Gosh. I’m jealous you have a corner.


  [00:07:25] AC: For me, nothing was done.


  [00:07:27] T: Even when you're looking at the clock and it's 7:53. You're
  like, “All right., I'll get started at 8.” Then you forget, and you look at
  the time, and now it's 8:03. You're like, “Well, now I have to wait until 9.”
  Anthony, I'm really curious why you wanted to talk about Yak shaving and what
  your experiences with it has been like.


  [00:07:44] AF: Yeah. I think Yak shaving is the way of me doing things. I am
  actually more likely to do – more enjoying to doing Yak shaving than actually
  doing stuff.


  [00:08:01] AC: I feel that.


  [00:08:02] BH: It feels so productive.


  [00:08:03] T: It really reminds me of the famous story about Michelangelo, the
  painter and sculptor, and how he's talking about finding the figure in the
  marble, when you look at it in a positive way rather than a negative way.
  You're trying to identify the solution that's already there. You just don't
  know it yet.


  [00:08:18] AF: Yeah. Right. For me, I would like to do some quick prototype or
  something that's get it to work and release out to see that how people react
  to it and others really need it. If that's went well, that you are more likely
  to evolve more time to improve it and make it better. If that's like, no one
  like it, you’d probably – and bad idea. You can just move on. You can just
  leave it and move on. Take what have you learned by making it, but just think
  about it in a different ways. It's more like that.


  I'm thinking that I have done a lot of yeah, a lot of Yak shaving, too. I did
  several that I've read several NPM package that lets really do some
  experimental things. For example, one of that is making the Vue composition
  APIs just looks like jQueries. I will call it jQuery, that I replace very
  brief and the compute is into dollar signs. Sometimes I think that I would
  like – give a try, but that is not necessarily to be being the production, but
  I'm really enjoying doing that and some of them might – you may later on
  realize that’s maybe a good idea, so you can stick on other improvements.


  I like to take an example, like Tailwind, that everyone will always think that
  Tailwind is a bad idea before using it. Yet, sometimes I've seen that some of
  the things that you – well, they really need to try to get to see if it's a
  good idea.


  [00:10:12] BH: I think it's incredible, what you call Yak shaving. It's very
  productive Yak shaving in a way, right? Because you're solving problems as you
  go and experimenting with it, which I think is nice, because it's like you
  said, when you have an idea, sometimes just getting it out there, it offloads
  it and allows you to see and interact with it in a way that's tangible, versus
  this thing that's just hanging in the back of your head constantly. I think
  it's so cool that you take these ideas and prototype them. To your point,
  sometimes it's just an experiment, and it's going to – no one's ever going to
  use it. Then you have the libraries that you've created that are super
  popular, like you use. I think that's amazing.


  [00:10:50] AF: Yeah, thank you.


  [00:10:51] T: Yeah, what is Vueuse?


  [00:10:53] AF: Yeah, Vueuse is a collection of Vue composition APIs composable
  functions that could be reused. You can think it’s the Lodash for Vue
  composition APIs.


  [00:11:10] BH: Basically, if you think of it another way, too, it's like,
  Anthony has taken really common things that you want, like pulling out mouse
  position. Rather than you having to go create your own composition API
  function that looks at the browser API, that pulls out the mouse position,
  then extracting it out, you basically call a use mouse and then you get your X
  and Y position on your mouse. That's it.


  It's done according to browser spec. Some of the examples on the docs, when
  you go to this NPM is like, you plot whether the user prefers dark theme by
  just doing use preferred dark and it's just a [inaudible 00:11:41]. It
  basically does some of that abstraction for you, so you don't have to – You
  suddenly could go low level, but just in a very Vue ethos, which I love about
  it is it extracts the common stuff that we always like to use into really easy
  to use functions.


  [00:11:59] T: To use, do you mean makes them available in a reactive way?


  [00:12:02] BH: Yes. Yeah.


  [00:12:05] AF: Yeah. For example, that you use the use mouse hook. From the
  Vanilla JavaScript you would need to add an event listener. Later on, you
  would need to, for example, you need to use the use mouse hook. In the
  vanilla, you'd need to use the add event listener to register your handler.
  Later on, when you are mounting the components you'd like me to call the
  remove event listener handle. With the power of the composition APIs, we can
  use the component’s life cycles inside the composition APIs. Use mouse hook
  will handle it automatically. You'd never need to consider at, the event
  handlers would be forgotten to be [inaudible 00:12:57].


  [00:12:59] AC: Now, I haven't used Vueuse and I'm currently stuck using Vue 2.
  Can I use it?


  [00:13:05] AF: Sure, sure. You can use it. That's the important things for me
  too. When I was making Vueuse, other times the Vue 3 is not ready yet. I just
  think, there's a quite important for Vueuse to make the transition from Vue 2
  to Vue 3, mostly. I figured out a way to make it acceptable to work for both
  versions. After a while, I realized there are some developers have a similar
  needs adopting to their libraries to Vue 3. I got an idea to extract the logic
  from Vueuse, to suppose that feature and it becomes Vue demi, which is another
  yak I have saved. Today, there are quite a few libraries is using it for their
  code to be an isomorphic code against to both versions. Yes, you can
  definitely use Vueuse in Vue 2.


  [00:14:07] AC: Can someone define isomorphic for me?


  [00:14:11] AF: Yeah. Isomorphic is like the things you could use the same code
  base for different targets, or different usage. Yeah. This is quite a release
  for developers. If you want to suppose Vue 2 and Vue 3 in two different code
  base, which means that every change, you need to do it twice. Every pull
  request made, you would need to cherry-pick to another versions that will add
  up a lot of the workloads. Yeah. I would choose isomorphic if it's possible.


  [00:14:50] AC: Yes. As someone who used to have to cherry-pick every commit to
  another branch for months on end, don't recommend.


  [00:14:59] BH: Yeah. I loved how you kept the French theme going, because for
  those who don't know, demi means half in French. It's cute that the Udemy gets
  half Vue 2, half Vue 3 in that regard.


  [00:15:10] AF: Yeah, kind of like. I was thinking that Vue commodity is
  embracing the French world.


  [00:15:18] BH: That means embracing the French word. Then the Vue community
  follows along with it. I still got people going like, “Is it vite?” I’m like,
  “No, it's Vite.” They’re like, “Why is it pronounced Vite?” It’s like, “It’s
  French.”


  [00:15:31] AC: For fast.


  [00:15:32] BH: Yes. For fast.


  [00:15:36] AR: I'm looking at the docs right now. I'm just blown away by this.
  This is so cool.


  [SPONSOR MESSAGE]


  [00:15:46] T: Oh. Hey there, Alex.


  [00:15:47] AR: Hey, Tessa.


  [00:15:50] T: What's got you so down?


  [00:15:52] AR: I need to write a native mobile app, but I’m just a simple Vue
  developer and I don't know how.


  [00:15:58] T: Oh. Well, have you looked at Ionic?


  [00:16:02] AR: The Alanis Morissette song?


  [00:16:06] T: No, silly. Ionic. Ionic is a platform for building mobile apps
  with the web.


  [00:16:13] AR: Whoa! What is happening?


  [00:16:15] T: With over 100 components and pre-build animations, Ionic gives
  you building blocks to make awesome apps with ease.

  [00:16:22] AR: Oh, no. We're trapped in an ad read.


  [00:16:25] T: Best of all, it integrates with Vue, so getting up and running
  is easy. You can use your existing skills to ship native iOS apps, native
  Android apps and progressive web apps without any hassle.


  [00:16:39] AR: Wait. I can use Vue to write a mobile app?


  [00:16:42] T: Yeah, that's what I've been saying this whole time.


  [00:16:45] AR: Well, hot dang. I guess, it's high time I give Ionic a try.


  To get started, visit ionicframework.com/vue.


  The heck was that?


  [00:17:00] T: Just the narrator. Don't worry about it.


  [00:17:02] AR: Oh. All right. Okay. Be sure to tell Ionic, you enjoy the Vue!


  [EPISODE CONTINUED]


  [00:17:16] BH: Speaking of Vue, Anthony, I think, I can't be the only one
  here, I am really curious to hear about how did you get involved with Vue and
  open source? What's the story behind that?


  [00:17:27] AF: Yeah. During my freshman year, that I'm trying to make my own
  website. That's my first time doing that web developers and that. Yeah, at
  that time, your immediate pick is jQuery. I started with jQuery for sure. I
  have a backend using Python.


  [00:17:53] BH: Wow. Alex is a Python fan. You’re talking to the right crowd
  here.


  [00:17:58] AF: Yeah. At that time, you already know that jumping into that
  Python and JavaScript, it’s a little bit pain for me. Then I heard Vue. At the
  time, Vue is Vue as 0.X phase. It's preparing for the 1.0 release. Yeah, I
  have heard it, but I didn't try it. At that time, I think jQuery works, why
  try a new thing?” Then it tried done it. Yeah, after and doing in other
  projects, and I got obsessed with it immediately.


  I my senior years, me and my friends get together to planning making financial
  app, and we choose not to do it. That's the chance for me to get serious Vue
  and TypeScript. In our college, we have some departments for formula language.
  We'd like to utilize the results. We have to make our app international.
  There's not too many [inaudible 00:19:04] tools for VS code out there, making
  all needs. They installed, why can’t I make one myself?


  After results, another yak, I made the VS code extension called i18 Ally,
  which becomes my first well-known open source project. Back to Vue, at that
  time, Xavier has published the RC about the functional APIs, which later on
  becomes the composition it does. Yeah, it looks so promising and we can't wait
  to play with it. During our experimentings, we found that there are some
  common logics could be reused. That becomes my first motivation to make the
  composable function library Vueuse.


  There's another story for me, is that things Vue us, suppose for both
  versions, in Vue 2 we relied on the at Vue composition APIs, the Vue 2, plugin
  for Vue 3. At that time, there are quite a long pairs of times that the plugin
  is not maintained. There is a disalignment between Vue 2’s implementation and
  Vue 3. Since the Vue 3 is still alpha and make doing changes. I made an MPR
  for it. It's got no response for a few months. I was kind like, I was a bit of
  angry about this, I guess.


  I think for me, that I'm making Vueuse and these alignments with Vue 2 and Vue
  3 make me very hard to do this. My pull request didn't get merged. That's
  something, I cannot do as [inaudible 00:20:56]. I was angry at first. Then I
  think that there is open source, there's no one's duty to do this. I think,
  maybe I can try this, so I create an issue and saying that I'm volunteer to
  maintain this project. Then even leave a comment. That is great. They gave me
  the permission to maintain this project. That's a story for me to join the Vue
  team. Yeah, I think I have need to – I would need to – thanks all to Yak
  shaving.


  [00:21:35] BH: All thanks to Yak shaving.


  [00:21:39] BH: That's incredible.


  [00:21:40] AF: Yeah. Since I need this, and so I took the response. Since I
  need it, so I seek the improvements for it and that's how things going.


  [00:21:55] AC: Meanwhile, I’ll be struggling with something and be like, “Man,
  I wish there was a solution to this.” Then two seconds later, forget about it.
  Move on.


  [00:22:04] T: Yeah. I thought you were going to say, two seconds later and
  like, “Ben.”


  [00:22:10] BH: This bug is now a feature.


  [00:22:15] AC: I can't tell you how many tickets I closed being really mad at
  our linting in our project before I actually did anything about it.


  [00:22:24] T: Yeah. When you can't get the linter to behave as expected, it's
  really frustrating. There have been so many times where I pulled the main
  branch. Then when I pushed, I wouldn't be allowed to push, because there were
  linter errors that were from the original pull that didn't pass the winter. I
  don't understand how they got committed to main. I'm really mad about it. Then
  I fixed everything, push it to main, pull again. There's some more errors
  there. What is happening? Anthony, we talked a bit about your past with you.
  I'm curious to hear more about what else you're excited about in the Vue
  ecosystem looking forward?


  [00:23:06] AF: Yeah, probably the Vite. You probably heard that Evan is
  working on a tool called Vite. It’s like, yes and dev servers that's really
  fast. Yeah.


  [00:23:20] BH: It is very fast. That's a great way to describe it.


  [00:23:24] T: It sounds like, we're already on Vite version two. I didn't even
  know we had a full version one yet.


  [00:23:30] AR: It's that fast.


  [00:23:33] AF: Yeah. It’s that fast.


  [00:23:35] T: Too fast, too furious.


  [00:23:37] BH: Well done. Well done. I think, to Anthony's point, I think with
  even Vite 1, there was a lot of lessons learned after releasing and playing
  around with it, that I think had Evan just kept it to himself and just kept
  iterating. He probably wouldn't have learned it as quickly. Because I know
  that with Vite 2, there are some architectural changes. I don't know exactly
  what, but I do know there was some changes that obviously warranted the major
  version change. Vite is probably an example of Evan’s own Yak shaving of like,
  I think –


  [00:24:04] T: I was going to say, it seems very hyperbole.


  [00:24:08] BH: I need this thing.


  [00:24:11] T: Absolutely. Yeah. I was curious what you're excited about, about
  Vite and other projects in the Vue ecosystem that's coming up in 2021.


  [00:24:20] AF: For me, that Vite is a very good tool for developers, or
  things. It brings up so many goods aspect to be quick prototyping and things
  and someone that don't have much patience. For me, I got ideas and I need to
  do a quick prototyping to prove that if it’s a good idea. As the Vite came
  out, I'm very excited about. I tried immediately.


  As the times and working some sides using icons, and icons plays a big role in
  apps for me. Sometimes I spend much more time picking silver icons than write
  code. Every icons that has its own website, find their icon IDs, which is
  annoying to me as sometimes my connection is quite slow. I cannot just get a
  search walk. Other times, Vue just going to [inaudible 00:25:30] and the Vite
  out. I decided to give it a shot to make my own icons crossing apps along the
  way.


  From this at the starting points, I make an app called Icones, which is also a
  French word in Icones. Then, since Vite is quite a new thing, it's not having
  a large ecosystem like Webpack, so I made a few tools working on it and Vue
  plugins components, which serves the similar functions like Knox components,
  which will import the components automatically in your Vue app. Then, I
  starting to make more Vite apps. Because I find a good patterns for it, then I
  make a template called Vitesse, is speed in French, but is a noun with some
  plugins I made and some configurations, I think is good for making Vite apps.
  It’s an optional tool for me to build a website using Vite very quickly. Yeah.
  Sure, it’s on GitHub and then it got quite – they got a quite well feedback
  that I didn't expect it.


  [00:27:01] T: Nice. How is it to deal with all of these incoming comments on
  your work? How do you know if you're in a situation where you do want to shave
  the yak, has there ever been a time where you decided, “No, I should leave
  that yak alone”? That's a yucky yak.


  [00:27:17] AC: That might bite me.


  [00:27:21] AF: Yeah. Okay. When I got an idea of maybe a yak, maybe I'm really
  rush on doing the things I'm doing. I may just note an idea on my to-do list
  or something, and get back later. I’m also trying to find the existing as
  possible. You don't need to save the yak.


  [00:27:48] T: Yeah. One question that I had, that maybe everybody can weigh in
  on. I mean, for example, with Anthony, we've heard so much about all of the
  different projects that you're working on. We all have a lot of a variety of
  things on our plate. I'm curious how everybody keeps, or doesn't keep track of
  the things that they have to do and the things that they want to do.


  [00:28:10] AC: I'll start with I don't. Classic ADHD. I'll have a really great
  idea. I'm excited about it for an hour, and then I completely forget that I
  ever had the idea.


  [00:28:25] T: Nice. Yeah, that happens to me a lot, too.


  [00:28:28] AR: Yeah. I definitely keep track of all of my ideas and then never
  act on a single one. I keep notebooks around where I can just very quickly
  scribble things out. Then sometimes I go back to it. Most of the time, I
  don't.


  [00:28:45] AC: I mean, at least, you write it down. I just let it go out into
  the ether, never to be seen again.


  [00:28:51] T: Something poetic about that.


  [00:28:53] AR: It's mostly that I write it down, because I've learned if I
  have more than three things that I'm trying to keep track of, I will very
  quickly not be keeping track of them. I tend to just write things down. Then
  when I go, “Wait, what was it?” I can look back at a piece of paper and go,
  “Oh, right. It was this thing.” Get back to the thing that I was doing.


  [00:29:17] AC: I like your idea, Tessa, that it's poetic that I just fill up
  thing.


  [00:29:21] T: It’s just very romantic. Like an indie movie.


  [00:29:25] AC: I don't know. It's actually frustrating. Because every once in
  a while, you have time during a sprint to work on some technical debt. The
  thing is, I don't always keep track of what exactly is technical debt. I know
  that there was this long list in my head at one point, of all the things I
  wanted to fix. Now I can't remember a single thing, until the next time I come
  across. I'm like, “Oh, that's what I want to fix.”


  [00:29:48] AR: Or, the worst is when you do actually write it down, or you
  have it tracked somewhere, but you weren't clear enough. You're like, “The
  blue is wrong.”


  [00:30:00] T: It's like, you're an archaeologist coming across the ancient
  civilization of you and being like, “What did they write?”


  [00:30:08] AR: What does it mean?


  [00:30:09] T: What was life like back then?


  [00:30:11] AF: Yeah, yeah. Exactly. For me, I’m not enjoying writing down, or
  maybe the to-do list is not very good. It's not very working good for me. I
  would rather to do it right now, things that – That moment, you got an idea
  that you can remember it more specifically and you got the motivation to it.
  When you write down things that it becomes that 10 meaningless letters, and
  you will never get back there to it, to the exciting moments you want to do
  this. I would prefer to do it when you gather ideas.


  [00:30:54] T: Nice. Yeah, it's funny, because whenever I read those cleaning
  tips, where they're like, if it takes five minutes or less, just do it. My
  mind, immediately –


  [00:31:03] AC: Nothing takes five minutes.


  [00:31:06] T: Well also, my mind spirals. I'm like, technically, you could
  break down anything small enough that it would take five minutes or less. Then
  already in my mind, I'm just cleaning forever and never cleaning in real life.
  I think for non-cleaning related to-dos, I'm a bit more like Anthony. You’re
  in between Ari and Alex in that. I usually don't like writing things down.
  I'll just keep it in my head and that does mean that the occasional amazing
  tweet disappears from my mind. It gets pushed off with Vue.


  On the other hand, I feel sometimes when I write it down, then I lose the
  motivation to work on it, because I feel I've done it, and so I don't have
  that pressure in my mind of I have to do this before I forget. Oftentimes,
  I'll just try to take care of everything before my cash gets cleaned.


  [00:31:49] AF: Yeah, exactly. I would think that if you really want to do
  things, you would remember that if you forgo it, you may not really want to do
  the things that much.


  [00:32:01] T: That's true. That's true. On the other hand, there's a lot of
  bills and things that I should take care of, but I don't really want to go
  through the work of nailing everything out.


  [00:32:13] AC: Or go into the website and coming across a terribly developed
  form.


  [00:32:18] T: Yup.


  [00:32:20] AR: Yeah. The discovering the thing that my boss did when he first
  started at the job, and you go, “Oh, no. That’s not. Oh, no.” Yeah. He and I
  have had a few conversations around that.


  [00:32:35] T: I mean, on that subject, I feel there's also externally enforced
  Yak shaving, right? When you come across some code and you're like, “This
  doesn't make any sense.” Then you look at the package and there's no doc. Then
  you find the person that wrote it, and you're like “Hey, what is this package
  do? There's no docs.” Then they're like, “Huh. Guess you'll just have to read
  the source code.” I know.


  [00:32:57] AR: Yeah. No. I have a question, actually. Does anybody else make
  other people do Yak shaving? In a PR, if you get a pull request for something
  and somebody is already working in a file or something and you noticed, “Hey,
  two lines up from where you are, this little bit that you didn't touch, this
  isn't new. It could be just a touch better. Can you work on that?” They go,
  “Oh, yeah. You’re right, that's totally wrong.” Then they fix it. Does anybody
  else do that? Or am I the only one?


  [00:33:33] AC: As I say, so I'm guessing you do this.


  [00:33:37] AR: All the time.


  [00:33:38] AC: No, because I've always been essentially, the only one working
  in a code base. Now, I at least have people occasionally dabbling in it. When
  you're all alone, the only person that can shave the yak is you.


  [00:33:51] T: I think for me, a lot of times it will be relevant, but the
  person working on the PR will be like, “Oh, that's Yak shaving. We can take
  care of that later.” I'm like, “That's fine.” It's just, we have a whole
  continent full of later yaks. That's fine. We just won't look there. Then when
  it comes to my PR and I'm like, this is definitely not related. It's like,
  “No, it has to happen now.” It's a very one-way binding there on the Yak
  shave.


  [00:34:16] AR: I'm henceforth referring to technical debt as later Yaks.


  [00:34:21] AC: Later Yaks. I feel fortunate though, that my boss is definitely
  a yak shaver. For him, he just ends up working really long hours to make up
  for the time he spent shaving the yak. I'm like, “But I like my evenings.
  Maybe I just won't shave the yak today.” Ben, you didn't weigh in. How do you
  balance yak shaving, or do you?


  [00:34:45] T: Also, your to-do list.


  [00:34:46] AR: We're all waiting for the wise words of Ben on Yak shaving.


  [00:34:50] BH: Gosh. Yeah, I'm the worst when it comes to infrastructure and
  just the idea that I could – if I just solve this one problem, it would save
  me 10% on the thing I'm going to do twice, and then I'm like, “Oh, not a good
  use of my time.” It's definitely a balancing act for me, as far as I'm forget,
  where – investing the right time to do the Yak shavings. I think, that's why I
  like what Anthony was talking a lot about regarding just A, either getting a
  quick idea out, regardless of how misshapen and not – if it only counts for
  one scenario, rather than every scenario, the classic over-engineering that we
  as developers often do.


  [00:35:28] AC: You’d shave half the yak?


  [00:35:30] BH: Yeah. To see how it works.


  [00:35:33] T: He half yaks it.


  [00:35:34] AC: Like a mohawk.


  [00:35:34] BH: Yeah. See how you like it. You don’t like it to shave it all
  of.


  [00:35:38] AF: Yeah. Just shave the base and the community improve it.


  [00:35:43] AC: That’s smart.


  [00:35:44] BH: It’s going to bother somebody.


  [00:35:46] T: I guess then, my question is when your yaks are getting out of
  hand, how do you trim down? I guess, not the yaks themselves, but the yaks
  that you're dealing with before you start Yak shaving, so that you do actually
  make some progress towards your goals.


  [00:36:05] AC: We're really beating a dead yak with this yak metaphor. It’s
  definitely feel like doing it.


  [00:36:14] AF: Yeah. Right. Exactly. You’d know when the time is kept.


  [00:36:21] AC: No, I totally understand what you're saying. Because yeah,
  there will be times where I'll recognize that something really, eventually
  needs to be done, but the thought of doing it in that moment sounds awful.
  Then there's the times where like, I start shaving the yak without even
  realizing I started shaving the yak. I'm like, “Oh, well. Guess I'll just keep
  going. Already halfway through.”


  [00:36:46] AR: Yeah. If you can look at a rabbit hole and go, “Oh, hey. That's
  a really deep rabbit hole. Probably don't want to go down that one.” Then you
  can put it on the Yak burner.


  [00:37:04] AC: Oh, no. That would yak of.


  [00:37:07] AR: Yeah. Sometimes you look at one and you just go like, “Oh, no.
  It's a little handful of dirt that's just been removed. It's fine. That's not
  a rabbit hole.” Then you're off them.


  [00:37:18] AC: Or sometimes, you can't see the bottom of the rabbit hole. For
  some reason, it's just calling your name.


  [00:37:25] AR: Yeah.


  [00:37:26] T: Yeah. Those are almost better, though, than the times when
  nothing is calling your name and you just got to slog through it.


  [00:37:33] AC: Exactly.


  [00:37:35] T: On the other hand, sometimes life just decides for you. Like the
  time that my doctor asked me, “Do you feel like getting your flu shot today?”
  Then didn't even wait for me to answer. The needle was already in my arm.


  [00:37:45] AC: I thought they had to do a consent for it. That's another
  topic.


  [00:37:51] T: Well, on that note, Anthony, if people want to talk to you about
  yaks, or other things, where can they find you on the Internet?


  [00:37:59] AF: Yeah. You can find me on Twitter. My account is @antfu7. My
  GitHub is Antfu without the seven. Things I think is very difficult to have a
  same usernames across a platform.


  [00:38:15] T: That's very true. That’s very true. Awesome. It's time to move
  on to this week's picks. Alex, would you like to go first?


  [00:38:24] AR: Over the past several months, I've been off on my own very slow
  Yak shaving adventure. I've been piece by piece upgrading my desk situation.
  This past week, I got a standing desk. It is very nice. It has motorized
  stuff. We will drop a link to that in the notes.


  [00:38:52] AC: I have a standing desk and I'd never stand it.


  [00:38:56] AR: The trick to it is that you've set a Tabata timer. Every hour,
  you change your position.


  [00:39:05] AC: Yeah. No, that's not happening. That would interrupt my flow
  state and that's just unacceptable.


  [00:39:09] AR: I mean, you don’t have to change your position, but that's the
  way that you get it going, so that it's, “Okay, now I'm up, now I'm down.”
  Then you're also not up all the time, or down all the time.


  [00:39:18] T: Is the Tabata timer, that thing where WebStorm tells you that
  you have to close WebStorm because your free trial is up and then you reopen
  it 5 minutes later?


  [00:39:30] AR: Yes. I now want to use an unlicensed version of WebStorm, just
  for the free Tabata timer.


  [00:39:39] T: I saw someone on Twitter suggest that. I was like, “Oh, that
  that would actually force me to take a break.” Otherwise, I don't think I
  could use WebStorm.


  [00:39:46] AC: Yeah. I was like, but then you'd also have to use WebStorm.


  [00:39:49] T: It’s just, there's too much going on there. I can't focus.


  [00:39:52] AR: There's nothing wrong with WebStorm. Don’t listen to them.


  [00:39:54] T: Yeah, there’s nothing wrong with WebStorm.


  [00:39:56] AR: I really like WebStorm.


  [00:39:58] AC: If you love WebStorm, that's okay, too.


  [00:40:01] T: Yup, absolutely. If you love Dank Mono, that's also fine.


  [00:40:07] AR: I like both.


  [00:40:10] AC: I couldn't even use Dank Mono anymore, because it was on my
  other computer. Now I can't find the way the cheap and way that I have it.


  [00:40:18] T: Well Ari, do you want to share your picks?


  [00:40:21] AC: Sure. Speaking of judgmental opinion about things other people
  love, for a long time, I just did not understand the appeal of Schitt’s Creek.
  I watched five episodes and I just was not interested.


  I decided after seeing someone actually, I believe it was Tatiana Mac, say
  that the first season was garbage, that they were intolerable, or insufferable
  is the word she used. I was like, “Yes.” Then she started got better. I was
  like, okay, I'll give it another try. I just skipped the first season entirely
  and started with the second season. Then I fell in love with it.


  [00:40:58] T: Nice.


  [00:40:59] AC: Yeah, I cried more than once. I'm not ashamed to say. If you
  didn't think the first season of Schitt’s Creek was funny, it gets better.
  It's worth waiting till the Thursdays when it actually really starts to get
  good, because when it starts to get good, it is so good. Yeah. Schitt’s Creek.


  [00:41:16] T: Wait. Then why not just skip to the third season?


  [00:41:19] AR: Because you need the –


  [00:41:20] T: Just like any good story.


  [00:41:22] AC: You need the story. Yeah.


  [00:41:25] AR: Okay. Yeah, I have not. We've watched the first three episodes
  and we were like, “Eh?”


  [00:41:31] AC: Yeah. No.


  [00:41:32] T: I was like, Daniel Levy is very charismatic, but I don't know
  about this show.


  [00:41:38] AC: Yeah. That was why I pay, because it's one of those shows where
  you either love it, or you don't get it and I didn't get it, because I wasn't
  watching the right seasons.


  [00:41:48] T: Also, just for me, I saw that ad where somebody makes Daniel's
  character cry, because he's singing some song about him, I guess, for an
  entire year. Every time we think about Schitt’s Creek, I think about that ad.


  [00:42:00] AC: Okay, but that was an amazing scene. Okay.


  [00:42:04] T: It seems like it would be. Yeah.


  [00:42:06] AC: I definitely have cried watching that scene. Okay.


  [00:42:09] T: Speaking of – No, that's a terrible transition. Ben, would you
  like to share your picks?


  [00:42:15] BH: Yes. Actually, my pick for this week is actually Anthony's
  project icones.js.org. That's icones with an ES.


  [00:42:22] T: The French way.


  [00:42:23] BH: Yes, the French way. The reason I really like it is because
  basically, icon libraries are really hard to just traverse. I can't tell you
  how many times I've been on Font Awesome to try to search for something.
  Downloading something has always been a pain. What Anthony has done with these
  icons is absolutely incredible from the sense that you search for things. When
  you find an icon you like, not only is it you can download the SVG, but you
  can actually copy the Vue component. You click Vue, and then it just has the
  template and the script block. You can just paste it in, all these DX things
  that are just absolutely phenomenal.


  [00:42:59] T: DX?


  [00:43:00] BH: DX, developer experience. Then for those who are using React,
  there are React snippets too as well. Don't worry, it's not just Vue only.
  Major props to Anthony for this wonderful project that he created. I'll
  definitely be using this a lot in future projects.


  [00:43:15] AR: Thank you. I got two picks. One is in Yak shaving videos within
  minutes. It's very funny. You can check it out. I will link it in the show
  notes. Another one is the Cyberpunk 2077. Playing with it a written pace and
  the data report, there are quite a lot box added in initial release process
  and developer and kind like, okay with this. Yeah. Maybe you can. If you got
  interesting, you can try it, I think despite with the box, they are doing very
  good at storytelling. Yeah, that's for my pick.


  [00:43:56] T: Yeah. I think it's available on most platforms, unless you have
  a PlayStation, then I believe you cannot play it.


  [00:44:02] AC: Yeah, I was going to ask if it was back on PlayStation.


  [00:44:06] AR: Yeah. I'm actually paying it on the PlayStation 4, which is the
  disaster [inaudible 00:44:11] people are talking about. Yeah, I'm happy with
  it. I'm really enjoying the games. Yeah, I don't find really that's something
  to compare, despite with the box.


  [00:44:27] T: All right. I guess, that leaves my picks. My first pick is a
  game that has been recommended by many people, including Divya and Henry and
  Evan, who are all guests on the show. It's called The Short Hike. It's an
  indie game available on computers and Nintendo Switch. When I started playing
  it, I thought, this game isn't really for me, but I don't know. Because then,
  I played for another three hours. I feel it is very Yak Shavy, though. It's
  very on-brand for this episode.


  You start out with this task of climbing to the top of the mountain. Then you
  meet all these people that are on the island, I guess technically, the
  character that you're playing already knows them. They all have little things
  that they want you to take care of. It's also nice, because there's these
  collectibles, but they're so scattered and there's so many different things
  that you have to collect that it overwhelms my need to collect every single
  thing a little bit. I also feel that happened.


  That's why I don't finish most games, because it's like, I'm about to beat the
  final boss, then I'm like, “Wait, I haven't collected the 1.2 million things
  that I need to have to have this game be complete.” Ari is nodding very
  vigorously.


  [00:45:41] AC: 900 [inaudible 00:45:41] anyone?


  [00:45:44] T: I think the worst one for me was an old commie, like the
  original one, where there were certain things that you had to dig up, but you
  could only see the spots at night. You just had to happen to be looking in the
  right spot in the dark.


  [00:45:56] AC: Awful.


  [00:45:57] T: Yeah. Along that note, I saw this hilarious video from a creator
  named Josh Neil, about when you walk into a room and immediately forget what
  you're looking for. I'll link that in the show notes. Also, this weekend, I
  saw this video from RubyConf 2017 on code review and when we were talking
  earlier about PRs, that reminded me of this. Seemed like a really nice video.


  Finally, to close out my picks, sticking with the French theme, it's a product
  called Dodo. I feel like, my biggest mental yak shaving moments come at night
  when I'm about to sleep. Then I think of a million things I need to take care
  of. I can't stop thinking about them. It's definitely a luxury item. It's a
  little white pebble that shines light onto your ceiling that expands and
  contracts. The idea is you watch it expand and contract as it helps you forget
  about the accident and fall asleep. I tried it once or twice, then I put it
  away somewhere. I don't know where.


  I didn't think it would work. I never made it to the end of the circle. I
  guess it did work. There's that. I think with yak shaving, what it reminds me
  of and maybe someone can correct me if I'm not saying this correctly, but this
  idea of [inaudible 00:47:16], which is revenge sleep. It's time for bed and
  you got to get up for work the next day, but the whole day you spent your day
  doing things that somebody else told you to do. Now it's like, you don't want
  to go to bed, because it's your time. Anthony's nodding. Feel free to correct
  me if I really messed that up.


  [00:47:33] AF: Yeah, sounds good. I’m got into the situations quite oftenly, I
  guess. Yeah, but I'm just enjoying the times doing what I want to do, even
  though is not really doing things, doing productive things, but I will enjoy
  it.


  [00:47:59] T: Yeah. I think this helps calm the minds for those moments when
  you can't indulge. With that, that's all for this week's episode. Thanks for
  listening. Until next time, enjoy the Vue.


  [END]
---
