---
episode-number: 65
episode-title: RFC the Vue: Script Setup with Lachlan Miller (RFCs 227 & 228)
date-published: 2021-06-14T11:00:00.000Z
cover-art: /uploads/etv-cover-ep-65.png
rss-link: 'https://feeds.fireside.fm/enjoy-the-vue/rss'
audio-link: >-
  https://aphid.fireside.fm/d/1437767933/41abfd1d-87a1-43d7-94d9-7fda3a5120e1/86501167-bca6-447f-9236-9e3b43352906.mp3
picks:
  - person: Alex Riviere
    picks:
      - title: 'SoSplush, Kelly Mahoney'
        website: 'https://sosplush.com/'
  - person: Ben
    picks:
      - title: Lachlan Miller on Udemy
        website: 'https://www.udemy.com/user/lachlan-miller-4/'
  - person: Tessa
    picks:
      - website: 'https://www.youtube.com/c/LachlanMiller'
        title: LachlanMiller (YouTube)
shownotes: >+
  **Overview:**


  Welcome back to part two of our conversation with Lachlan Miller! If you
  missed our first discussion about testing, make sure to go back and listen to
  part one too. Lachlan is a full-stack software developer who is passionate
  about open-source, test-driven development, and mentoring. You may know him
  for his involvement in the Vue.js community and his work on Vue Test Utils.
  You may have even read the book he wrote about it, Design Patterns for Vue.js.
  In today’s episode, we speak with Lachlan about script setup, improved
  developer experience, and how much magic is too much magic? All this and so
  much more in part two of our discussion with Lachlan Miller, so make sure to
  tune in today!


  **Key Points From This Episode:**

  - Find out what script setup is and how it seeks to improve the developer
  experience.

  - How this script setup RFC creates a more ergonomic way of authoring
  components without you having to learn anything new.

  - Lachlan talks about the ref sugar RFC, which is more polarizing than script
  setup.

  - Hear some of the panel’s mixed reactions to ref sugar, which reminds Alex of
  Svelte.

  - Taking inspiration from other frameworks in the process of moving language
  forward.

  - Defining props with the script setup RFC in a way that doesn’t change the
  amount of coding you would have to do anyway.

  - Why coming to this RFC with a level of understanding and open-mindedness is
  critical.

  - Why composition API is set up much closer to raw JavaScript.

  - Lachlan speculates about how TypeScript and the ref sugar syntax might play
  out.

  - How you could use Vue 3 to build plugin architecture like console logs or
  filters.

  - The panel weighs in on how much magic is too much magic; why you should have
  a good reason for abstractions.

  - Lachlan’s advice for those intrigued by script setup and ref sugar: try it
  before you buy it!

  - Onto this week’s picks, which include Lachlan’s YouTube channel and Udemy
  courses, as well as My Octopus Teacher.


  **Tweetables:**

  - “The idea is just to reduce the boilerplate because you're constantly
  writing export default, you're constantly writing return, and there's not a
  ton of value in constantly writing the same thing over and over again.” —
  @Lachlan19900 [0:02:55]

  - “Vue traditionally was all about simplicity and ease to learn, so I think
  that's something that we all want to keep in Vue, both for developers and new
  users alike.” — @Lachlan19900 [0:06:36]

  - “To ignore other innovations and other frameworks would be shortsighted. I
  think there's a lot of value in at least exploring these kinds of ideas..” —
  @Lachlan19900 [0:13:38]

  - “This kind of ergonomic tooling can have downsides in that it's not exactly
  what you might be used to coming from another framework.” — @Lachlan19900
  [0:20:30]

  - “I don't think there can ever be too much magic, but there should be good
  reasons why you have abstractions. They should have the right thought process
  behind them.” — @Lachlan19900 [0:24:53]


  **Lachlan's picks:**

  - [My Octopus Teacher, Netflix](https://www.netflix.com/title/81045007)


  **Links Mentioned in Today’s Episode:**

  - [Lachlan Miller on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Lachlan19900)

  - [Lachlan Miller on
  YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCydNBt-h2Cox_Ub_GzspneQ)

  - [Lachlan Miller on GitHub](https://github.com/lmiller1990/)

  - [Lachlan Miller on Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/user/lachlan-miller-4/)

  - [Lachlan Miller](https://lachlan-miller.me/)

  - [New in Vue 3: Watch & watchEffect with Alex
  Riviere](https://enjoythevue.io/episodes/53)

  - [RFC #227: New script setup (without ref
  sugar)](https://github.com/vuejs/rfcs/pull/227)

  - [RFC #228: Ref sugar sfc](https://github.com/vuejs/rfcs/pull/228)

  - [Enjoy the Vue on Twitter](https://twitter.com/enjoythevuecast?lang=en)

  - [Enjoy the Vue](https://enjoythevue.io/)

transcript: >-
  EPISODE 65


  [EPISODE]


  [00:00:09] A: Hey everybody, and welcome to Enjoy the Vue. I'm Alex. Today, on
  our panel we have Tessa.


  [00:00:16] T: Hi.


  [00:00:17] A: And Ben.


  [00:00:19] B: Hello, hello.


  [00:00:21] A: And our special guest for this episode is Lachlan Miller. And
  this week, we'll be talking about script setup. Lachlan, what is this script
  setup thing that I've been hearing about?


  [00:00:34] LM: Sure. So, there's two RFCs in the Vue.js RFCs repository. I'm
  looking at them right now. They're number 227 and 228, if anyone wants to go
  and check them out. But basically, one of the feedbacks that the team got with
  the competition API is there's a little too much boilerplate. You have to
  create the setup function and you have to return all the values from setup
  function that you would like to be exposing in your template. I think, for
  that reason, Evan put some thought into how we can reduce the boilerplate and
  sort of improve the developer experience, always trying to incrementally
  improve Vue.


  There's two RFCs. The first is you can add a setup attribute to your script
  tag and it basically allows you to write your kind of composition components
  without using the setup and returning the variables. So, you can imagine if
  you have a regular competition API component with setup, you just remove the
  setup and the return, and you write everything in that script block and any
  variable you declare inside of the script tag will be made immediately
  available in the template. So, nothing really changes about how Vue works, or
  anything you've learned is still applicable. It's just a slightly more
  ergonomic way of authoring components.


  There's another RFC, which is a little bit more creative, it kind of strays
  off the path a little bit to make the boilerplate even more reduced. But I
  think we can talk about the first kind of main RFC, which is the newsgroup set
  up one a little bit first.


  [00:02:05] A: Yeah.


  [00:02:09] B: And so, to give our listeners like a mental image, because might
  not be looking at a computer screen. Again, if you're thinking of your block,
  you have your script, and instead of your normal, like export default object
  and then you have setup inside, it's literally just a script block. And then
  you have like space, that setup, as long as that's just an attribute, an extra
  attribute we throw on there and that's it. And then everything else inside of
  scripts now acts as javas, like the setup function.


  [00:02:33] LM: Right. And you can go ahead and import anything you normally
  would import from node modules, or whatever, and use the reactivity API in
  exactly the same way you declare reps and reactive. Any variable you declare
  will be available in the template automatically, whether you like it or not,
  which is not really a big deal. If you don't want to use it, just don't access
  it in the template. The idea is just to reduce the boilerplate, because you're
  constantly writing export default, you're constantly writing return, and
  there's not a ton of value in constantly writing the same thing over and over
  again.


  Yeah, I'm pretty interested in RFC. I personally think it's great. I don't
  have to learn anything new to use it. I just have to write slightly less code.
  So, definitely a win in my books.


  [00:03:18] B: I think what's tricky, though, is that in the traditional
  composition API, as Lachlan mentioned, you have to explicitly return what you
  want to expose to the component. Right? So, in this setup, I guess we're to
  assume that there's some sort of IntelliSense from letting the what is in
  what's not being exposed? Because if I write a bunch of stuff, and I'm only
  trying to expose one variable, for example, that would slow down performance,
  or whatever, I think that might be.


  [00:03:47] LM: I mean, internally, whatever is returned is kind of put in this
  context variable, and that's injected into the templates. If you actually look
  at the RFC, Evan actually outlines the exact transformation that takes place.
  Basically, every variable you declare is just inserted into a return statement
  and that entire thing is inserted into a setup function. So, it kind of
  constructs the composition API setup function for you, just saves you writing
  a little bit of code. As you mentioned, all the variables are now available on
  the template. I don't see any real downside to this. I mean, performance is
  obviously something you need to think about. But I'm guessing that Evan would
  have thought about these things and sort of benchmarked them before just
  throwing them out there.


  [00:04:28] B: So, you mentioned ref and reactive work as normal, but I think I
  tried playing around with that recently. So, normally, in the composition API,
  when you use the reactive object, you'll usually unbundle the object with two
  refs as a way to not have to prefix all your templates with like, State dot
  first name, State dot last name, State dot full name, right? Have you found a
  way to do that inside of the script setup block?


  [00:04:52] LM: I think it should work the same, you just destructure it and
  they should be made available in the template. I never really thought about
  it, actually. But yeah, I do –


  [00:05:00] B: You’re not explicitly setting a return. So, if you’re not
  explicitly setting a return, you can’t actually tell – that’s when I ran into
  a problem. At least I haven't – that’s one thing I haven't figured out with it
  yet. Trying to get to the answer.


  [00:05:12] LM: Interesting one. Yeah. My assumption would it be, I thought it
  would just be the same, like you would have your reactive object and you can
  just access it in the template. I could be missing something here. Like we
  said, this is a very new proposal.


  [00:05:26] B: Yes, very experimental. We’re talking hypothetically.


  [00:05:27] LM: Yeah, it is possible. There's a bit of a learning curve there.
  But yeah, I mean, I think most of the – just looking at the feedback now on
  the – yeah, just looking at the RFC feedback for the basic script setup RFC,
  it's got all thumbs up, it has zero thumbs down. I think people generally seem
  pretty satisfied with it.


  The most sort of polarizing RFC is ref sugar. So, instead of writing React
  const variable equals ref count, for example, to declare a new variable,
  there's an alternative syntax which has been proposed, where you just say ref,
  colon, and then you just put your number in or your variable in, and it kind
  of makes it magically reactive. This is something that got a lot more mixed
  feedback, because it's sort of implicitly taking your variable and making it
  into a ref or reactive. But that's a further layer of abstraction away from
  from Vue, which is already at one layer of abstraction away from JavaScript.


  Some people love it. They're like, “Wow, it's even more concise now.” But the
  downside is, it's a little bit more difficult for new developers to learn.
  There's a kind of more steep learning curve, and Vue traditionally was all
  about simplicity and ease to learn, so I think that's something that we all
  want to keep in Vue, both for developers and for new users alike.


  [00:06:47] A: Yeah, this is really interesting to look at. I've pulled it up
  on my screen. So, I'm looking at it. I hadn't seen – I think I had previously
  seen the script setup RFC. But I don't think that I've seen the ref sugar one.
  For anybody listening who has ever looked at another framework, another
  JavaScript framework called Svelte, the syntax for this looks very similar to
  Svelte and how they do some of their stuff. Having not seen this before, I
  have mixed reactions.


  [00:07:28] LM: So, what is your first impression? Because I mean, I think we
  can all recognize that new things are always a little bit uncomfortable. When
  we all saw JSX for the first time with React, people were like, “Wow, what is
  this?” But some people came to love it. So, I mean, I think it's fine to have
  a negative first impression as long as you have an open mind. What's your
  first impression there?


  [00:07:47] A: My first impression is I want to write Vue not Svelte. But at
  the same time, in theory, there is a potential performance benefit from syntax
  like this, where we move more towards compiler directives, so that the
  developer can say, “Hey, do the thing whichever way you think is best.” And
  then from a compiler standpoint, you can go, “Oh, you're actually doing like
  an object in there.” So really, we shouldn't use ref, we should use reactive
  instead, and that'll give us a performance boost, and blah, blah, blah, blah,
  blah, right? So, I'm torn about this one, because I'm like, “This is great.
  But this is also not something I would use.” So, those are my initial gut
  reactions on this. Tessa, how do you feel?


  [00:08:36] T: I mean, just hearing it described, I'm already completely bought
  in. But I do also miss filters, so I don't know if people will trust my
  opinion on these things. Like, I'm already looking at the ref and reactive
  methods and thinking, “Well, that's new and foreign to me still.” To me, like,
  should I go with that? Or should I go with this other syntax to do the same
  new thing? To me, that doesn't feel like an abstraction on top of an
  abstraction. It just seems like one is a shorter way to do this new thing that
  I have to learn either way.


  [00:09:13] LM: Sure. On the note of filters, unrelated, but it's pretty easy
  to hack filters back into Vue, if that's something you're excited about. The
  new compiler is very – has an extensions architecture. You can add things in
  yourself. I do think as time passes, we'll see more and more experimentation
  with Vue as we're seeing with the ref sugar as well. I'm pretty interested in
  what Ben also has think about it, because I know you've been doing Vue for a
  long time. It's a bit of a departure from familiar territory, right?


  [00:09:41] B: Absolutely. One of the things you mentioned actually, that I did
  want to – as some of us like say, to double click into, is that this sort of –


  [00:09:51] T: No, none of us are like that. Sorry, keep going.


  [00:09:56] B: Some of us. So, you were mentioning this idea regarding like,
  it's a departure from what we're used to. It's like bringing in filters. A
  filter is actually a great distinction on this particular discussion, because
  it's pulled back even a little bit. For those who don't know, what filters
  are, you basically with inside of your template, you will say something like
  the current, like the total price, and then a single pipe operator and then
  say, like currency. And so, we’ll take the total price value, and then call it
  format it into the currency filter. That's kind of basically what it did.


  But also, for those of you who are more familiar with Vue, you're probably
  thinking that's basically a computed property or like a method, right? The
  method is applying something and that's it. The reason this was deprecated,
  was motivated largely to the fact that JavaScript as a language is actually
  thinking of using the single pipe operator, for I don't know exactly what it
  was, but it's actually planned on using it for something going forward. If
  what we're interpolating between our curly braces is supposed to be plain
  JavaScript, now you have this risk of, like, is this single pipe for Vue
  filter, or is the single pipe for the new, call it, the ES 8, whatever comes
  out. So, knowing that there are specs being discussed, basically, this is one
  of the reasons it was basically taken out, since it's basically doing what you
  would normally do with a method anyhow.


  That said, with this ref sugar syntax, one thing to clarify, too, is that in
  addition to just getting the syntactic sugar of saying instead of const,
  count, you would say, ref colon count, the other problem to solve is that you
  no longer have to do access the value with dot value. This is the biggest foot
  gun, when it came to refs or comes to refs in general is that most people
  aren't used to having to access that value when they're dealing with refs, and
  it gets into even a whole more messy territory, as Alex knows, watching me try
  to work with like watching refs, because then if it's an array kind of has a
  different thing, because you have to have a deeper understanding of what's
  going on.


  I think this is why this syntactic sugar is being discussed is because, I
  know, some of a lot of our initial reactions to things is this is not how
  JavaScript does things and this is not what I'm familiar with. But I think one
  of the things I think Evan pointed out well, is that like, the language does
  need to find ways to move forward. A lot of times what libraries do as they
  help to build the conventions that we know of today, right? Like, jQuery is
  the reason why we all associate the dollar symbol with selectors. That's
  basically where that convention came from. Without jQuery, you wouldn't have
  like in your Chrome developer experience the dollar sign zero, which would
  select the most recent element, right? If I'm not mistaken, Lachlan, maybe you
  might know. But I believe that was inspired largely by jQuery.


  [00:12:28] LM: Yeah, I think so. It's also very useful. So, there's that. It's
  interesting that you mentioned how it’s, I guess, moving JavaScript forward,
  because one of the original motivations with the competition API was to get us
  closer to JavaScript, right? Because all the sort of magic that the options
  API exposed and how it would mutate this made TypeScript very difficult to
  work with. But this kind of goes back in the opposite direction. It is a
  slight departure from JavaScript. Whether this is easier to type and the
  tooling will catch up is another question.


  But one thing I noticed with this is it feels weird at first, but when you try
  it out, and like really try it out for a few hours, it starts to feel pretty
  good. So, I do think people need to give it a chance, at the very least, and
  see how they feel about it. People are saying, “Wow, it's so similar to
  Svelte.” If you looked at the State of JS survey, Svelte is really popular and
  it's gaining a lot of popularity. So, it's good to take inspiration from other
  frameworks. I think React and Vue have both driven each other and many other
  frameworks as well have, like jQuery is the reason why we have all the nice
  things we have. So, to ignore other innovations and other frameworks would be
  shortsighted. I think there's a lot of value in at least exploring these kinds
  of ideas.


  [00:13:47] A: Now, one thing that I'm looking at with this, I find very
  interesting. So, we have a script tag with an attribute of setup on it and we
  define a bunch of things in there. I have a lot of components that have props,
  how do I define those?


  [00:14:07] LM: Sure, I can cover this one, I suppose. If you actually – I
  guess you're on the GitHub page. If you click on rendered in the RFC, you can
  see a more longer detailed version of this. There are a few new methods
  exposed which are things like define props I believe it's called or something
  like that, it might be in the other RFC. It's in the other RFC actually. This
  one is purely about the sugar, the syntactic sugar.


  If you look at the script setup RFC, the one we talked about earlier, I
  believe there is a defined props method or something like that, which will –
  yeah, define props and define image. So, you can specify which props will be
  received. So, there is that. It is another thing to learn, I suppose, but it
  definitely will help with TypeScript for sure and you have to define the props
  anyway. So, I don't think it really changes the amount of code you have to
  work.


  [00:14:56] A: Yeah, I was just right off the bat, thinking about it, and sort
  of looking at some of the examples. I was like, “Where is this? Why can't I
  see it?” But now I see it. So, that's very interesting.


  [00:15:10] LM: If you think about it, it's very consistent actually, with the
  defined component, especially for those working with TypeScript follows that
  exact convention. So, define component, define props, define limits. So, in
  this regard, granted, the pattern might be – it is a departure from what we're
  used it from options API, but then again, the composition API is supposed to
  introduce a new paradigm. I think coming with that level of understanding and
  open mindedness, I think is critical. For those who are probably wondering,
  how do I access the props that are being passed into said component? The
  attribute, if you give it an equal sign and then in the double quotes, it'll
  have the props and context argument that you would normally expect to get as
  arguments to the setup method. So that's how you expose those.


  [00:15:52] T: So, for those of us not familiar with the TypeScript thing that
  you were just talking 

  about, do you mind sharing a little bit of context?


  [00:16:01] B: Yeah, I think actually, I'll throw this one to Lachlan, because
  he has a whole course on this. So, why don't you tell people about defined
  component?


  [00:16:07] LM: Sure, okay. So, I mean, I think one of the big driving
  decisions behind the design of the new composition API is it is closer to
  JavaScript, in a sense. We don't have to – for example, in the options API,
  you can go and create a data method, then you can access it in a computed
  property by saying this dot foo, or this dot message, or whatever. How that
  came to be available under this is not entirely obvious sometimes because Vue
  does a lot of kind of magic instrumentation in the background, which gives you
  a really great experience if you're just building something small. But as your
  apps scale, TypeScript is valuable, and the dynamic nature of this in
  JavaScript is very difficult to type.


  The way composition API is set up is it's much closer to raw JavaScript.
  There's no or less magic in the background. For example, when you want
  something to reactive, you say ref as opposed to just declaring in data and
  having it magically be reactive. This sort of separation makes it much easier
  to type your methods and type everything. And you can get better type safety,
  which is something that's very valuable to a lot of people on very large
  applications.


  I think that won't change at all with this script setup RFC. It should work
  the same because everything is compiled to a traditional setup function
  anyway. Does sort of answer your question, or we're looking for something more
  specific?


  [00:17:34] A: I guess my question is, is that with the the ref sugar syntax
  where it looks more like Svelte, do we know what the TypeScript story with
  that is going to be like? I know that editors and stuff give some help with
  types and type hinting and that sort of thing, but how is that going to go
  with the sugar syntax?


  [00:17:59] LM: Yeah, good question. I'm also fairly curious to see how this
  plays out. I would expect that, I mean, I'm sure this has been thought about.
  I'm not sure how complex it is to implement, I have no doubt you can type
  something like this, especially with defined props, define limit, and all that
  sort of thing. It should, if anything, make it easier. But as always, you got
  to consider that someone has to write these editor plugins. Someone has to
  maintain them. And it's more complexity. There is actually a drawback section
  of the RFC I'm reading now, and it talks about the tooling. But there's no
  reason why we can't type these things in the same way we type everything else.
  Svelte has great typing as well and they have a similar API. So, there is
  previous literature on how you can do this sort of thing.


  I don't see the technical side of it as a blocker. It's more about the people
  side of it, whether people adopt the API or a new new style of writing or not.
  It doesn't mean we have even more ways to right view components. We have
  classes, we have options, we have traditional composition, we have script set
  up, it's something we need to be considering when expanding the framework.
  And, as you all know, JavaScript constantly has new features, which is great.
  But it also means many more things to learn, which makes the barrier to entry
  much higher.


  [00:19:16] T: I also want to tie back to something you said, Lachlan, about
  this context, with something Ben said earlier about the curly braces in the
  template and how that's pure JavaScript. I just wanted to add that note there
  that it's not technically pure JavaScript, right? Because we do have that
  proxying where anything on this you can just access without this dot, which
  like, personally, I really enjoy having that convenience. But that is a point
  that many people who start few find really challenging even for some people
  after they've been working with it for more than a year, they might still find
  it frustrating.


  [00:19:48] B: Yeah, that's an important clarification point. Yes. This is so
  right. Not pure JavaScript. But JavaScript statement is really what I meant to
  say. That's evaluated.


  [00:19:56] LM: Yeah, I mean, there's always going to be sort of caveats or
  rules you need to keep in mind. I think that it's not too bad to understand
  that anything exposing a template is available in the interpolation. The one
  thing that is not available with window, you can't say something like window
  dot blah. It's really just what comes from your template, which is somewhat
  unintuitive at times, because if something was on the window, you generally
  expect it to be available everywhere. It's not available inside of curly
  braces.


  It kind of plays back to the point that this kind of ergonomic tooling can
  have downsides that it's not exactly what you might be used to coming from
  another framework. I definitely want to keep using that.


  [00:20:39] T: Yeah, every time an event handler doesn't fire, and I know that
  I need to, like console log something just to make sure that it happened, I
  cry a little tear of blood, because I know I'm going to have to make a method
  just to console log it.


  [00:20:53] LM: Right. No console logins inside of templates, which is – I
  mean, it doesn't happen that often, right? But when it does, it's like, “Oh,
  man, again.” It's a little bit. What would be really nice is if you could use
  a filter, where I would want to it – what I wanted to do, if you have a method
  and you have a filter, it would be nice if you could filter into console log,
  you can easily see the value. But that's something you can't do inside of a
  template, which is it's not a big deal. But it just does show you there are
  limitations when you have these of extra steps in your processing to give your
  ideal developer experience. You do have to make payments, and there are
  tradeoffs involved.


  [00:21:32] A: Clearly, you just need to make a global mix in to bind console
  to your component and –


  [00:21:45] B: With this kind of stuff though, while it wouldn't necessarily
  make sense maybe to build into the library directly. I mean, with [inaudible
  0:21:48] plugin and things like [inaudible 00:21:50]. I feel like because you
  can identify where blocks are like for those of us who play with it, it will
  automatically import things. I know part of that is due to TypeScript. So, I
  can basically call components before I actually import it, and then it will
  call the import statement correctly.


  I don't see why we couldn't enhance the DX from like, if you want to call it
  to a log method within the template, there's a specific one you would call, it
  would automatically create that inside the method block with a console log
  statement. I don't see why that wouldn't be possible. I think that would
  actually probably help a lot of people.


  [00:22:21] T: We’ll make sure he hears this this episode.


  [00:22:25] LM: I don't know if anyone's really played around with this. But
  Vue 3’s compiler has that kind of plug in architecture, you can build in
  stuff, basically. And you could easily build in like a console log or a filter
  or something like that. I do look forward to when people start experimenting
  more with compiler plugins and building different things. I have no doubt
  someone will build filter in the near future, so you can have filters again.
  They’re beautiful for migration purposes, at the very least, right?


  [00:22:51] T: I mean, I like it because I like the aesthetics of it just this
  idea of you smash something through a wall, and it's kind of like the before,
  after, how it's been going, or that whole meme. But in terms of like the way I
  actually think about breaking down component data and stuff I think,
  conceptually, it makes sense to keep that stuff in the script tag where
  possible.


  [00:23:10] LM: For sure, I agree.


  [00:23:12] T: But this idea of whether the filter is worth any potential
  tradeoffs or not, it does kind of harken back to the question that Alex closed
  on last episode, which is, is there too much magic?


  [00:23:23] B: I think, for me, I actually don't think there can really – okay,
  sorry. There are always an option for too much magic if you abstract to the
  point that people don't understand something. That I think is where you get to
  literally too much magic. But I think to say that you're abstracting things to
  make people more productive, and that they're just new learning, there are new
  things to learn, I don't actually consider that magic anymore. I think it's
  like a lot of things. 


  We are entering a new age where a lot of things are being abstracted away. I
  was just on a talk, a couple hours ago about how just, maybe five or 10 years
  ago, developers were manually configuring servers to make sure they could
  serve their web applications to the community. Now, we have serverless things.
  We have all these things that really empower us, and we don't have to focus on
  those things. Technically, now, then that means serverless is magic. But it's
  just like, I think abstractions, as long as we have opportunities to dive in
  and learn more is okay. But if you abstract to the point where people can't
  follow, then yes, that would be.


  [00:24:24] LM: Yeah, I agree. I think the good abstractions are good. You
  don't just make them for fun, or just for the sake of it. But people said that
  there's a lot of boilerplate involved in setup, which led to the creation of
  scripts setup. It wasn't like, let's just make a new way to write components.
  It was more like, “Okay, there's been a lot of feedback and let's take the
  feedback on board and see how we can improve the experience based on this
  feedback.”


  So, those abstractions are good. The ones that emerged from real world
  problems. So yeah, I don't think there can ever be too much magic, but there
  should be good reasons why you have abstractions. They should have the right
  thought process behind them.


  [00:25:03] A: Yeah, I'm going to agree with Ben on this one, is that you want
  to – there’s a lot of stuff in Vue that already is magic, right? Templates are
  kind of magic because, ultimately, they get compiled down into a render
  function. The same thing in React with JSX. You have these magical compiler
  directives that look kind of like HTML, but they aren't. We're already doing
  stuff that is magic, to a certain extent. Vue is doing a lot of stuff that's
  already magic but, at the same time, if you go too far with that magic, it's
  going to not be magic. Then it becomes arcane, dark arts, and we're all in the
  Land of Pearl and it's not good. We don't need to go back to that world.


  I think a little bit of magic can't hurt. I'm excited for this script setup
  thing. I'm hesitant about the ref sugar concept. But in general, I kind of
  like it.


  [00:26:15] LM: All I will say to listeners is try it before you buy it, in
  this case. Definitely give it a good try for like a few days and then see how
  you feel.


  [00:26:26] B: Seconded on Lachlan’s point.


  [00:26:29] A: So, the last kind of question that I have for you is that this
  is an RFC that is open. Is there a way to play with it? Is this available? Is
  this something that we can play with, that we can write with now? Or is this
  something that is still just being sort of explored and discussed?


  [00:26:51] LM: Yeah, so this is available right now in Vue 3 if you install
  the latest version. It doesn't mean it's going to be in the framework forever.
  But it's there, so you can try it out. It does give you a nice big console log
  saying it's experimental and it might change. But yeah, you don't have to do
  anything special to try it out. You just need to install the latest version of
  Vue, and you can get going with it right now.


  [00:27:13] B: Yeah, and to double down on Lachlan’s point, experimental thing,
  while it shipped in the 3.0 whatever bundle it is, the API is experimental, so
  you cannot count on it to stay the same. That's why it's in there.


  [00:27:26] A: Awesome. All right. Well, I think that's it for this episode.
  Lachlan, where can people find you on the internet?


  [00:27:36] LM: Yeah, sure. So, I mainly hang out on Twitter and GitHub, but I
  started a YouTube recently as well, where I post new content occasionally. So,
  I'll get links left to those in the description for the show notes and you
  guys can check those out.


  [00:27:49] A: Fantastic. So, with that, it is time to move on to this week's
  picks. Tessa, do you want to go first?


  [00:28:01] T: I can. I was looking at testing stuff earlier today, because I
  was trying to think about what we might discuss, and I had found out that
  someone had a YouTube channel, which he just mentioned, so that was my pick.
  That's my pick.


  [00:28:17] A: Ben, you're up.


  [00:28:19] B: All right. Well, I'm thinking, so for those who don't know,
  Lachlan does have a couple courses on Udemy. So, totally recommend checking
  those out. So, my pick for this week is Lachlan’s Udemy courses.


  [00:28:30] LM: Thanks.


  [00:28:30] A: Cool. Clearly, I just need to make my pick. Just be like,
  “Lachlan, you should just – I pick Lachlan. That's my pick.” Lachlan, do you
  have any picks this week?


  [00:28:43] LM: Definitely. So, not to do something a little bit different. I
  watched a documentary on Netflix recently called My Octopus Teacher. Have any
  of you heard of it? Maybe not?


  [00:28:54] A: I believe I have.


  [00:28:56] LM: It’s about a researcher and he's researching an octopus. As
  opposed to a traditional documentary, where you just learned about the animal,
  he researched one specific octopus and they sort of built this unexpected
  relationship, like a friendship. He was with it throughout its entire life,
  from when it was a young octopus until the end of its life. He sort of
  followed it for its lifecycle. I became familiar with him. It’s really, really
  interesting. Definitely worth checking that out. It is only an hour long, so
  it's not a really long watch. But yeah, it was really different to anything
  I've seen before and quite emotional, actually, to see a man forming a bond
  with an animal like that. Especially a wild one that we traditionally wouldn't
  – something so alien and so different to us. So, it's really, really
  interesting and fascinating stuff.


  [00:29:44] A: Excellent. Finally, my picks are, the one pick that I have is
  Kelly Maloney's shop, SoSplush. You can find it at sosplush.com. She has
  stickers that are fantastic. I have gotten several of them. She has several
  Vue types of stickers and they are wonderful and amazing and really high
  quality and they look really good. And then I've plastered them all over my
  mug because they're pretty fantastic. So, that is my pick for the week.


  [00:30:22] T: Oh my gosh, this whole time, like for the last two years or
  something, I thought it was So Splush. Like I thought that was the name.


  [00:30:29] A: I'm not sure how to pronounce it. So, I'm going with SoSplush.
  It may be So Splush, I'm not sure. So, it's either SoSplush or So Splush.


  [00:30:38] LM: Wow. These look awesome. I’m just looking at it.


  [00:30:41] A: Yeah, they're really great.


  [00:30:44] LM: Very cool. They even have a VM one, my favorite editor.


  [00:30:46] A: And she sends them in this bright pink envelope. I have them
  right here and they are they are just lovely.


  [00:30:56] T: For the listeners, Alex is showing us a very bright pink
  envelope and some Halloween stickers, but I can't see them because the
  envelope is so bright that I've turned away.


  [00:31:05] LM: They look awesome, honestly. Very cool. She actually has a mask
  as well, which is something I think everyone needs at this point in time with
  COVID dragging on.


  [END OF EPISODE]


  [00:31:17] A: Alright, and that's all for this week's episode. Thanks for
  listening, and until next time, Enjoy the Vue.


  [END]
---
